I am a novelist.
Books are my profession, of course, but it is more than that.
It is my great, lifelong love and fascination.
And I do not expect this to change.
But recent things have happened in my life and career, which has brought me to reconsider my relation to this work altogether.
This equity event was that I recently wrote a book – a bipartisan named'eat, Pray, '– which decided, unlike all of my previous books in the world, and became a big mega-event, international bestseller thing.
The result is that, no matter where I come, I would be treated as if I refused the demise.
The demise of death!
For example, they are very worried about me and say, "Don't you fear that you will never exceed that success?
Do you not fear that you rewrite your entire life and never create a book that anyone in the world want?
Okay, the power really courage.
But it would be worse if I did not remind me that I was more than 20 years ago, when I first told myself that I wanted to be the novelist, confronted with the same kind of anxiety.
People said, 'are you not afraid to succeed?
Do you have no fear that you reverse the humiliation?
Do you have no fear that you leave this power for your life and you never have something to happen, and that you will die on a scrapped dreams – your mouth filled with the bitter ash of failure?
For example, they know.
The answer – the short answer to all these questions is: 'yes.
Yes, I fear all of these things.
And I always had it.
And I have much more fear that no one would appreciate.
Like seaweed – and other scary things.
But, when it comes to writing, I have lately been asking me: why?
Is this reasonable?
Is it logical that someone should be expected to be afraid of doing the work he feels about?
And what is going on with creative ventures that they make us uncertain about the mental state – in a way that other occupations do not?
My father, for example, was chemists, and I can't remember my situation in his 40 years as a chemists he asked whether he would have been afraid to be chemists.
With your chemical blockade, John – what about you?
They simply did not know?
But, to be fair – the group of chemists have not received the centuries of reputations of alcohoan-depressive people.
But we novelist seem to have this kind of reputation, but not only the novelist, but the creative of all genres who seem to have this reputation become mentally unstable.
All they need to do is to look at the bitter death figures of really great minds in the twentieth century that young and often died from their own hands.
And even those who did not commit suicide seemed to have been negligible from their talent.
Norman Mailer said just before his death in his last interview: 'every of my books killed me a little further.
An extraordinary statement that they can do about their life.
But we don't even hear something like this, because we know this kind of statements for so long, somehow we accepted the view so internally and collectively that creativity and suffering are somehow cohesive, and that art – at the end – leads to the spirit of the spirit.
The question I want to ask anyone here today is this idea: is it entirely okay?
Do you feel like it? Because, with only one centimeter... I don't feel comfortable at all.
I find them disgusting.
And I find them dangerous, and I do not want to see how it is taken into the next century.
I find it better if we live our great creative encouraged.
And I certainly know that it would be very dangerous for me – in my situation – start beginning to downturn this dark path of the presumption – especially the fact that I have just found in my career.
That means, you see: I am quite young; I am just about 40 years old.
I may have another 40 years of work.
And it is highly likely that everything I will be evaluated from the world as the work that came after my final book's success?
I say it, because we are all friends now – it is highly likely that my biggest success is behind me.
Oh Jesus, what a thought!
These are the kind of thought that someone can get to start at 9 a.M., drink gin, and I don't want to do so.
I would rather do that work I love.
So the question is: how?
After some time of the reflections, I seem to think that I must continue to write a kind of protective psychological construct.
Somehow, I must find a way to maintain a safe distance between me and my very natural mitigation about how the response to the writing will be.
While I searched for models last year to do so, I searched in the past, and I have tried to find other societies to see whether they might have better or reasonable ideas about how to help creative deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity.
This search led me to old Greece and the old Rome.
Please follow me, because the circle will resign.
But, in the old Greece and Rome, people did not believe that creativity comes from people, okay?
They believed that creativity was a kind of divine reflection that comes from a distant, unknown source of people – for unexplained, unknown reasons.
The Greeks called the divine divisions of'demons creativity.
Of the crown, he was known that he believed that he would have fared a death that he refused.
The Roman had the same idea, called this kind of body'creative spirit a'genius.
That is great. The Roman didn't really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual.
They believed that a genius was this kind of divine nature, which was believed that it lives literally in the walls of a British profession – roughly as Dobby, the house 11, and the artist in work would be invisible and shape the result of work.
That is brilliant – there is the distance I spoke – the psychological construct that protect you from the consequences of your work.
And everyone knew that it worked, right?
The artist of aging was preoccupied with some things, such as, too much narcissism, right?
If your work brilliant was a conntest you don't look for you; everyone knew you had this useless genius that helped you.
If your work turned out – not entirely your mistakes, or?
Everyone knew that your genius was wrong.
For example, people in the west have genuinely long thought about creativity.
And then the Renaissance and everything changed. We had this great idea, and this great idea was: let us put the individual into the center of the universe – all gods and mysterious, and there is no room for mystical beings who take orders from divine.
It is the beginning of rational humanism, and people began to believe that creativity came entirely from the individual.
For the first time in history, people say a genius for those or artists – rather than that of he has a genius.
I must tell you: I think that was a big mistake.
Do you know? I consider allowing a mere person to think he or she is like the vessel, like the basin, and the essence, and the source of all divine, creative, unknown, unfulfilled, is a small too much responsibility to impose a fragile, human psyche.
It is like someone to swallow the sun.
That entails and skews entire egos, creating all of these unachievable expectations of success.
I think that this success has destroyed our artists of the last 500 years.
And, if that is true – and I think it is true – the question is:
Can we change?
Perhaps an aging knowledge about the relationship between people and the mystery of creative.
Perhaps not.
Perhaps we cannot easily trigger the thought well from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute presentation.
And there are certainly people in this audience who would claim genuinely legitimate scientific doubts about the idea of – fundamentally – featuring people's aftermath, and apply intense magic to their projects and so forth.
I will probably not take all of them on this trip.
But the question I want to raise is: why not?
Why not think so?
For it makes much sense like anything I heard when it comes to declaring the absolutely crazy capriciousness of the creative process.
A process that – like anyone who has ever tried to make something – in other words, everyone here – does not always behave reasonably.
Indeed, it can sometimes feel even paranormal.
I recently met such an encounter as I met the extraordinary American subsidiaries in Ruth stone, who is now more than 90, but she was a subsidiary for her entire life; she told me that she was working out in the field in the village of Virginia, who said she would listen to the landscape.
She said it would be like a no-fly train.
The country on them would roles.
It felt when it came, because it would put the earth beneath its feet.
She knew that she could do just one moment in her words – 'race like the devil.
It ran like the devil to the house while being pursued by this poem; it was only about having to get quickly enough to a leaf, and a pen to capture it if it could capture through them and stick on the tables.
In other words, she was not quick enough; he ran and ran and ran; but she didn't get the house and the poem by them; she missed it; she said it would continue to pull over land and – as she said, 'look for another poet.
And then there were these moments – the part of I would never forget – saying that there were moments in which they were almost
So she is running to the house and addiction to paper, and the poem is driving through her, taking down a pen just as she goes through and then – she said – it was as if her other hand had to pick up and get it.
It turned the poem to its tail, and drew it back into its body, and took on the tables.
In these occasions, the poem came freely and intact on paper – but backwards – from the last word to the first.
When I heard this, I thought, 'that is scary – exactly how my creative process is happening.
This is not like my creative process – I am not the channel!
I am a silver lining; I need to stand up to work every day, and sweat, I am hard, and genuinely unpleasant.
But even I have sometimes strengthened this thing in my multuous way.
And I estimate that many of them have done so.
Even I had work or ideas that came from a source of mine that I really cannot identify.
What is this for one thing?
And how do we engage with this without losing our sense, but even on the contrary to intellectual health?
For me, the best living example is how to create that can Tom Waits, and I took him a magazine interview a few years ago.
We spoke about this issue. And do you know what? Most of his life, Tom was the embodiment of the embarrassing modern artist, who tried to master this uncontrollable creative stimulus in him and deal with them.
But then he was older and quiet, told me that he was going to Los Angeles one day, and everything changed for him.
He went at a high speed when he suddenly heard a small fragment of a tune that is often difficult for him, and he wants to have them, and he is filled with him, but he cannot think it.
He has no piece of paper; he has no pen; he has no ccp record.
So it begins to move this old tightening into him, such as'i will lose this thing, and that song will last forever.
I am not good enough, I cannot.
But, instead of panic, he stopped listening.
He ended the idea and did something entirely new.
He simply looked in the sky, saying, 'excuse, can you not see me driving cars?
'do I look like I might just write a song?
If you really want to exist, come at a more favorable moment when I can care about you.
If not, quals are someone else today.
You and quals Leonard Cohen.
His entire labor process has changed after that.
Not the work itself, which was often as dark as ever.
But the process and the severity surrounding him was lifted when he came out of the genius, where he had nothing caused in trouble and left him where he came to speak, recognizing that it had to be an internally tormented thing.
There could be an owner, miraculous, bizarre collaboration, a kind of conversation between Tom and the xenophobic thing that was not quite Tom.
When I heard this story, it changed a bit of the way I worked, and it saved me once.
This idea saved me when I was in the midst of'eat, Pray, 'i fell into one of the doubts of the doubt we all fall when we work in something, and you start thinking that a disaster will be written the worst.
Not only bad, but the worst of all times.
I started thinking, I should simply pick up the project.
But then I was reminded of how Tom had spoken in the free sky, and I tried.
So I emphasized my view of the manuscripts, and I spoke my comments toward a empty corner of the space.
I said, 'stop you, you, you, and I know both when this book is not brilliant that it is not entirely my guilt?
For you see that I have everything I have, I have no longer investment.
So if you want to do better, you must change here and keep your share of the deal.
Okay. But if you don't do so... You know what, then the devil.
I will still write further, because that is my job.
And I wish to offer minutes that I was now part of the jobs here.
For … at the end, it is like this. Centuries ago, the north Africa's people have gathered mockery with holy sticks and music that have been held for hours – until the dawn of day.
This firm was always great, because the dancers were professional, and they were terrific.
But, again, very rare, something happened, and one of the performers was actually outsized.
And I know that they know what I mean, because I know that they all have seen such a show in their lives.
It was the time to stand up and the dancers join a kind of pforte, doing nothing differently than he has ever done – 1,000 nights earlier. But all of them combined.
Suddenly, he no longer appeared in human rights.
It has been elicited by inward and wayward, and everything has been eluded by a divine fire.
When something happened then, people knew what it was; they called it in his name.
They put the hands together and began to sing: 'allah, Allah, Allah, god, god, god.
That is god, you know?
Interesting historical footnote: when southern Spain conquered it, the language changed over the centuries of'allah, Allah, 'olé, olé, olé, 'which is still struggling and fodder.
If an actor in Spain has done something impossible, a bit magic: 'allah, olé, Allah, Allah, Allah, Allah, great, great, favo, 'as it is: a fleeting look at god.
And that is great, because we need that.
But the slippery part of the next morning, when the dancers wake up and recognize that it is 11 on a plane, and he no longer bears a fifth of god.
He is merely an aging mortal with painful kours, and perhaps he will never be returning to these heights.
And perhaps someone will never call god once he turns, but what should he start with the rest of his life?
That is hard.
This is one of the most painful corrections of creative life.
But it may not have to be very full of pein if they did not believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of their dasone would be.
If you may only believe that you are a bond – from an unimaginable source of your life passed on to someone else when you cope with it.
When we start thinking, it changes everything.
For example, I started thinking and I certainly worked in the past few months, while I worked in the book that will seem soon – as the dangerous, frightening, highly expected successors of my dismissed success.
What I must always say when I will get crazy: don't fear.
If not discouraged.
Get your job.
If your contribution remains, whatever he might be.
If your job is dancing, tance.
If the fool's divine genius that you have on your side decides to show a simple moment as wonders by your effort, 'olé!
And if not, tance will dance.
And'olé! 'for all of you
I believe it and I feel that we should learn the lessons.
'olé! 'for all of you, simply to be the mere human love and self-interest.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Olé!

