You know, one of the great grievances in travel and one of the joy of ethical research is to live together with the people who can still remember the old days; the past still feels in the wind, smooth stones touch in the plants they touch in the rain.
It is easy to know that Jaguar shamans are still beyond the normal path, or the significance of the myths of the oldest electronical, or that in the Himalayas, the Buddhists still have the breath of the Dharma, is to recall the centrality of the anthropologist, which is a reality that is in the world.
Of course, we all share the same adjustments.
We are all born. We bring children to the world.
We undergo initiatives.
We must deal with the inexorable division of death, so we should not surprise ourselves that we all sing, dance, and art are producing.
But interesting is the unique tone of the lieu, the tances of every culture.
It doesn't matter whether it is the Penan forests of Borneo, or the Voodoo akolythen in Haiti, or the warriors in the emperor desert of north Kenya, which elsewhere in the Dean, or a cargo in the midst of cuba, or echoes in florida.
All of these people teach us that there are other options, other ways of thinking on earth.
And that is an idea that, if thinking about it, can meet only with hope.
Together, the world's myriad cultures form a net of spiritual and cultural life that seeks the earth, and is equally important for earth's good, as the biological web of life known as biosphere.
One can imagine this cultural web of life as an ethnosphere, which can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams, myths, ideas, inspirations, and intuitive that have been created by human imagination since the beginning of the sense of consciousness.
The ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity.
It is the symbol of all of what we are and what we are as surprisingly aware of species.
And, just as the biosphere was heavily held, this has happened to the ethnosphere – at a more speed.
No biologist, for example, would dare claim that 50% or more of all species are on the verge of extinction, because it is simply not true, and yet, this – the apocalyptic scenario in the area of biological diversity – is hardly what we know as a optimistic scenario in the region.
And the crucial indicator of this is the extinction of the languages.
When everyone was born in this area, there were 6,000 languages on earth.
Now, a language is not only the whole of the vocabulary, or a series of grammar.
One language reflects human spirit.
It is a means that the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world.
Any language is like an ancient forest of mind, a turning point, a thought that an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities.
And of these 6000 languages today, while we are in shanghai, just half will no longer walk into the ears of children.
They are no longer taught children, which means that when nothing is done, they are actually dead.
What could be more lonely than to be careful by silence to be one of the last individual of your people who speak, have no way to share the wisdom of ancestors or expect children?
And yet this terrible fate actually resides someone somewhere on the earth, about two weeks, because every two weeks, older people die, and the last silveries of an old language with the grave.
And I know that some of them say, "Isn't it better?" wouldn't the world be a better place if we all speak a language? "and I say," Well, let this language be Yoruba. Let it be chang.
Let them be guarantei. "
And then they would suddenly realize how it would be if they cannot speak their own language.
As a result, I would like to take them to a trip through the ethnosphere, a short trip by the ethnosphere to try to understand what has actually lost.
Now there are some of us who are somehow forgotten that when I say, "Various ways of being," Really different ways of being my own.
Consider, for example, this child of Barasana in the north west of the Amazon, the people of anaikonda believe that they came to the mythologically musy of the east's dairy of lines in holy lines.
This is a people that does not distinguish cognitively between the colors of blue and green, because the sdrs bets of the forest that depends on which people depend.
They have a sense of language, and a judiciary called the linguistic exogamy: one must marry someone who speaks to another language.
All of this is rooted in the mythological past, including those big houses where the mischechen six or seven languages are spoken, but you never hear someone who learns a language.
They hear only and start talking.
Or, one of the most fascinating tribes I have ever lived, the northeast orange people in Ecuador, a stunning people that was first admitted peacefully in 1958.
In 1957, five missionaries tried to connect and made serious mistakes.
They accused images of falling out of the air, which we would assess as a benign gesture, forgetting those people from the rainforest in their lives never had something various.
They lifted these photographs of forest soil, tried to see the face or the character, found nothing, and concluded that this is a matter of gravity, killing the five missionaries with the speer.
But the orange I did not only kill outsiders with the speer.
They seized each other.
54% of the deaths occurred by drilling.
We pursued the genetic ology eight generations, and two cases of a natural death, and when we asked people about them, they said that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age, and we still killed him with the speer.
But, at the same time, they had a clear heritage that was astonishing.
Their hunches could defeat the nature of a animal from 40 moves, and determine what animal type of animals belonged.
In the early 80thier years, I got an astounding task when my professor at Harvard asked whether I would be interested in going to Haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the groundwork of Duvalier and Tonton Macoutes and the poison used to ensure that it was used.
To give this sense, of course, I had to do something about this remarkable belief in Vodoun knowledge and Voodoo economics not a cult of black magic.
On the contrary, it is a complex metaphysical worldview.
It is interesting.
If I asked them to count on the great world religions, what would they say?
Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, 'or whatever.
A continent is always left, because the presumption was that there was no religious faith in sub-Saharan Africa; of course, there was a and Voodoo simply the legacy of this very deep religious thought that came over during the tragic Diaspora of slavery.
But what makes Voodoo so interesting is this vibrant relationship between the living and the dead.
The living habits of mind.
The ghosts can invoke from the big water, respond to the rhythm of the tances to displace the soul of the living so that the akolyth will make a short moment for god.
Deshab likes to say the Voodoo man, "Her white goes to the church and speak about god.
We dance in the temple and become god. "
And, because you are obsessed, will you take over the spirit. How can you hurt you?
Consider this stunning demonstrations: Voodoo akolyolythen in a tranceous state, the ardent of coal without burning, an astounding illustrated by the spirit's ability to influence the body so that it keeps it in a state of extreme excitement.
Now, all of the people I met were the guarantei of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in northern Colombia, the most extraordinary.
Offspring of the old tyrannical civilization populated the Caribbean coastal level of Colombia, and in the aftermath of the conquest, this people moved into an isolated volcanoes rising above the Caribbean coast.
In a bloodshed, these people were the only people never captured by the spaniards.
Until today, they will be governed by a ritualistic priesterity, but education is very extraordinary.
The young akolythen are separated from their families in the age of three and four years, and in a shadow world of finest, isolated from the glaciers at the futures of 18 years, two periods of nine years, deliberately elected to emulate the mother's pregnancy, who spend their wife.
And, throughout this period, they are culturally introduced to their society's values, which perpetuates the claim that their prayers and only their prayers, the type of logical – or we could say the ecological balance.
At the end of this stunning initiation, they will suddenly be taken out, and for the first time in their lives, at the age of 18, they see a solar rise, and, in this crystal clear moment of light when the sun starts to concede the appeal of the beautiful landscape, all of what it will suddenly tell you.
It is so wonderful. You need to protect it. "
They call the older brothers and say that we are the younger brothers, responsible for the destruction of the world.
This level of intuition is very important.
Whenever we think of a born and born landscape, we either invoke Rousseau and the old rumor of the noxious wild herum, which is a racist idea, or Thoreau, and say, these people are more connected to nature than we do.
So, born are neither sentimental nor are they weakened by nostalgia.
It remains not much place in the malaria epidemic of southern charges of asylum or the cold decline of Tibet, but they have nonetheless shaped, through time and a mystery of earth, based not on the idea of being aware of it, but on a subsidy of human intuition.
Now what does this mean?
It means that a small child from the andean, which is growing in the belief that the berg is a spirit of apu-who will determine his or her fate, will be a very different person, and a different relationship with that resource or that place as a small child from Montana, who is growing.
Whether it is a preoccupation of a spirit or a crowd is irrelevant.
The interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature.
I grew up in the forests of British Colombia, believing that these forests are needed to be allied.
This made me a different person than my friends of kwakiutl, who believe that these forests of the residence of hukuk and the get-strained islands and the kannibalian spirits that live at the north of the world, who would join them in samat-
Now, when one begins to see the idea that these cultures can shape different realities, one can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries, for example, this plant.
It is a photograph that I first included in the northeastern Amazon last April.
This is ayahuasca, many of them have heard, the strongest psychoactive preparat from the repertoire of shamans.
But what makes ayahuasca so fascinating is not just the pharmaceutical potential of this preparat, but it is really manufactured from two different sources, with one side, there are these wooden scarves a series of beolines, harolin, who is easily winded.
This plant includes some very strong tryptamine's serotonin, dimethylyptamin-5, and methodical xydimethyprus are very similar.
If you have seen yanomammi, as you cold this mess, this substance that you produce from different species also methodical xydimethyprus.
Cold's puder is about to become a hijacking of a gun, but failed by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity.
There is no distortion of reality, but the disintegration of reality.
I have even been discussing this with my professor, Richard Evan Shultes, the man who feeling psychedelische ata with the discovery of magical mushrooms in Mexico in the 30 years, claiming that the trtamine could not qualify as a crtamine moment.
But the cause of tryprus is that they cannot be taken orderly, given that they are, of course, monoamoxidase, called through a human intestines.
They can be taken only together with some other chemicals that MAO denatured.
What is now fascinating is that the beactive campaigner'that are contained in the liane are mao-bitors of exactly the kind needed to issue the trypine. So ask themselves.
How can these people find these two morphologically non-related crops, combined in a flora of 80,000 species of adstrust crops, such as a kind of biochemical version, so
We use these great euphemism, try, and mistakes, which turns out to be meaningless.
But Indians say, "The plant speaks to us."
So what does this mean?
This tribe, the Cofan, have 17 variants of ayahuasca, who all see in the forest that seem like a way for our eyes.
And then you ask them how they justify their benevolence and say, "I thought you can do something about plants.
I mean you don't know anything? "and I said," No. "
So, it turns out that each of the 17 variants in complete moon and sing them in a different tone.
Now that doesn't bring them a Harvard graduate record, but it is much more interesting than maturity.
Now, the problem - the problem is that even those of us who have attracted sympathy for the difficult situation of immigrants, but they are somehow confined to the past, while the real world, that is our world, progresses.
So, the fact is that the twentieth century will be remembered not for its wars or technological innovation in 300 years, but rather as an era in which we adhere to goods and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on the planet either supported or passively accepted the problem.
All cultures have engaged in dance with new life opportunities.
And the problem is not technology.
The'x Indians did not stop being on the ticket than they bent and arrow tasks when Americans stopped listening to the horse and copper cars.
Not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethical sphere; it is the ugly face of rule.
And, wherever you look in the world, you will discover that these cultures are not doomed, and they are vibrant peoples whose existence is crowded out by detecting the capacity of adjustment, whether they are the egregious ones living in the country.
Or if we go to the mountains of Tibet, where I reexamine much, the ugly face of political dominance will be seen.
Do you know that genocide, human extinction is widely condemned, but the ethnic genocide, the destruction of human life, is not only condemned, but generally celebrated as part of a development strategy.
And they cannot understand tibets if they have not experienced it at the bottom.
I traveled to Lhasa with a young colleague of Chengdu to Lhasa from Southeast Tibet to Lhasa, and only when I came to Lhasa, I saw the face behind the statistics of which you hear 6000 monustones turning into the ashes and ash million people.
The father of this young man was identified as followers of the Panchen.
That meant that he was immediately murdered during China's invasion.
His uncle fled to the Diaspora with its sanctity, which brought people to Nepal.
His mother was jailed as punishment for – to be prosperous for the crimes.
He was caught up in jail for two years in the age to hide under her rock Corps, because she could not live without him.
The sister who begged that tasty did was brought into an education camp.
One day, she stepped up on an impoverished maos, and she had to become a heavy labor camp for seven years.
Suffering may be intolerable, but the heightened spirit of people is something unforgettable.
And, at the end, do we really want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia or in a polychromatic world of diversity?
Margaret Mead, the great anthropologist said before she died that it is their greatest fear that, while we move toward a thread, formidless, general world view, we would not only see the entire range of human imagination to a imagined mindset, but that we have forgotten one dream and wake up.
And it is humiliating to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years.
The Neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture, and, at this moment, the cult of the seed treaty, underscored the shamans'narrative by the prose of the priesterity and hierarchy, specialization, and overshot just 10,000 years ago.
The modern industrial world, like we know it, is hardly 300 years old.
Now that superficial history does not tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges we face in the coming millennia.
If we ask these myriad global cultures after the importance of human issues, they respond with 10,000 different voices.
And in that song, we will rediscover the possibility of what we are: people with full awareness that are aware of the importance that all people and gardens must thrive, and there are great moments of optimism.
Here is a photograph I included in the northern end of the Baffin islands, when I went to the narwhal-hunt, and this man, olaya, told me a wonderful story of his great father.
The Canadian government has not always gone very well with the epic inflates, and they have been forced to move into settlements during the 500-year period of the establishment of our rule.
The old man's grandfather refused.
The family that had fear of his life took all weapons and all the tools.
Now they must know that the incessors have no fear of the cold, using them to benefit.
The swings seemed to be made originally from fish produced in the Caribbean skin.
The man's grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the storm.
He was slipping out, left his hosts down from the dog fell and dedue due due to his hands, and when the matter began to freeze, he grew in the form of a knife.
He put a dog on the side of the caliphate, and, as it was fully frozen, he was a dog.
He deemed the dog and improvised a mess, took the dog's body and improvised a slew, Spanish a different dog, and deteriorated over the ice shrugged with the pitfalls of the belt.
There is no such thing.
And this is in many ways a symbol of the resistance of the un's epic and all indigenous immigrants around the world.
The Canadian government gave full control of an area larger than California and Texas combined in April 1999.
It is our new home country, and is now avbent.
It is an independent area; they control all mineral deposits.
A stunning example, such as a nation, a state that can seek and achieve reaffirmation with its residents.
And, ultimately, I believe, it is quite obvious, at least for those of us who traveled to the earth's distant goals, to recognize that they are not even removed.
They are someone's home countries.
They represent parts of the human imagination that extend back to past times, and for all of us, the dreams of these children, such as the dreams of our own children, will be part of the geography of hope.
What we ultimately try at national Geographic is that we believe that politicians never achieve something.
We believe that polemik – we believe that polemik is not convincing, but we believe that story can change the world, and thus we are probably the best institution for stories in the world. Our website receives 35 million hits every month.
156 nations send our television channel.
Our journals are read by millions.
And we companies have a series of travel to the ethnosphere where we take our audience in places of such cultural surprise that they are blamed by the respected view, and they will assume one of the centrality of the anthropologist: that the world deserves a different way of living in a variety of memory.
Thank you.
What I will show first, as fast as possible, is the basic work, a new technology we have handed over Microsoft as part of a year ago, which is Seadragon, and it is an environment in which they can circumvent locally or with huge quantities of visual data.
We see many, many layered digital photographs that are seamlessly and continuing, moving in any way.
And no matter how many information we see is how big these sets are, or how big the images are.
Most of them are a digital camera, but this is, for example, a scan of the library of congress, and it is in one area of 300 megapicopions.
It doesn't make a difference, because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this constraint is the number of warnings on their screens at every moment; it has a very flexible architecture.
This is a whole book, an example of non-bilateral data.
That is Bleak house of Dickens. Any fault is a chapter.
To prove that it is a text, not an image, we can do something like this to show that it is a real representation of the text, not a picture.
Perhaps this is an artificial way to read an online book.
I would not recommend it.
This is a more realistic case. This is an issue of the Guardian.
Each big picture is the beginning of a downturn.
And that gives them the pleasure and the good experience to read a real paper issue of a journal or newspaper, which is a form of magnitude.
We have also made something about the corner of this particular issue of the Guardian.
We have designed a false complaint with very high resolution that is much higher than a normal sign, and we have added additional content.
If you want to see the functions of this car, you can see it here.
Or other models, or even technical specifications.
And this really affects these ideas to abolish those constraints on the available space on the screen.
We hope that this does not mean pop ups and other nonsense – that should not be necessary.
Of course, the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for technology like this.
And I don't really want to spend much time here except to say that we will also contribute to this area.
But these are all roads in the United states.
Repulating on NASA's filtering picture.
Let us get something different now.
This is even live on the Internet. They can test it.
This is a project called Photosynth, which truly combines two different technologies.
One is Seadragon, and others are a very good research on computer vision, who of Noah, a university student in Washington, under the advice of Steve Seitz on the uw.
And Rick Szeliski was conducted by Microsoft's research, a very good collaboration.
So this is live on the Internet, fueled by Seadragon.
They can see this if we design this kind of views in which we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multiple resolution.
But the Geographic order of the images is indeed important.
Computer vision-algorithms have captured these images together so that they see the real space in which they have taken all close to the grass lakes lakes lakes in the Canadian rock camp, with elements of stabilized dioric or panoric processing, and all of these things being placed in a relationship.
I don't know exactly whether I have time to show other environments.
There are which are much more visible.
I would like to look forward to one of the original data sets of Noah, and this is from an early prototype of Photosynth that we first worked in the summer to show them what I believe is the pointments behind this technology, the photosynms technology, which is not so obvious.
We had to worry about lawyers and so on.
This is a restructuring of the Cathedral Notre Dame, which had been done exclusively in the computer with illustrated by a mere Notre lady in harlem, and they will receive images of men in t-shirts and on the university grounds, and so on, each of these colorful keholds an image that was discovered as a model.
So these are all the patchwork images, and they all stand in this way.
And we can navigate this very simple way.
You know, I never believed that I would eventually work at Microsoft.
I am grateful for reception here.
I suspect that these are many different kinds of cameras: everything is the handy-camera to professional sldrs, a pretty large number of them all have been mustered in this environment.
And if possible, I will find some of the strange ones.
Many of them are covered by faces, and so on.
Somewhere here, a number of photographs - here they are.
Indeed, this is a poster of emergency lady that was accurately recorded.
We can change from the poster to a physical view of this environment.
The point here is that we can do things with the social environment, now collected data from all – from the entire collective aquifers of what looks like, visually, the earth – and everything is linked to each other.
All of these photographs are linked, and something larger than the sum of the parts.
They receive a model that emerges from the entire globe.
Consider this as the continuation of Stephen lawon virtual earth.
And that is something that is growing by the complexity that people use, and its benefits for users are increasingly growing.
Their own photographs will be tempered with metadata that have embraced another person.
If someone has done the effort, and all of these sacred complaints and tells who they are all, then my photo of the emergency dam Cathedral suddenly enriched all of these data, and I can use it as a starting point to appear in this space, with the impression that other people use and photos.
And, of course, the vast range of virtual models of every interesting part of the earth, which were given not only through flights or satellite images and so on, but by collective collections.
Thank you.
Do I understand it? Their software allow for some time, within the next few years, all images that are used together by someone in the world?
Yes, it does not discover anything else.
If they want to build hyperleft between images.
And it does so because of the contents in images.
And that is really exciting if you think of the myriad of the semantic information that many of these images have.
As you make a web search for images where you share rates and the web text of the website contains many information about what picture is.
But what if the picture is linked to all its images?
Then the scope of the semantic cross-border and the myriad that it makes is truly enormous, a classic net effect.
Blaise, that is truly incredibly warm.
Thank you.
I will tell you some things from my book, I hope, in line with other things they have heard, and I will try to create a few connections if they have not been struck.
I want to start with what I call "Official dogma."
The official dogma of what?
The official belief of all western economies.
The official dogma works: if our goal is to maximize the common good of our citizens, this is above all by maximizing individual freedom.
The reason is that freedom in itself is good, makes sense, an essential condition for human rights.
If people have freedom, each of us is to do the things that maximize our common good, and no one has to decide.
Maximizing freedom is to maximize choice.
The more choices people have, the more freedom they have, and the more freedom they have, the more common good they have.
This is, I think, so deeply embedded in our water supplies that it would not come to question it.
And it is also deeply rooted in our lives.
I will give you some examples of what gives us modern progress.
This is my supermarket. No big one.
I want to say just briefly about salatdressing.
There are 175 dressings in my supermarket, if they do not count the 10 extra ole (12 balsamico vinees), and they could buy them to produce a large number of their own fix in the event that no 175 is right for them.
So that is how the supermarket is.
And then they go together to the consumer electronics business for a capital-asset ratio – CD player, a CD player, radio, and, in this electronics, there are so many of them.
We can collect 6.5 million different operators from the components offered in this business.
They must acknowledge that this is a big choice.
In other areas – the world of communication.
There was a time when I was a boy, because every phone had to have the suppliers they wanted as long as he came from Ma Bell.
They rated their phone; they did not buy it.
One consequence was that the phone was never broken.
These days are over.
We now have almost an infinite choice of phones, especially in the world of mobile phones.
These are mobile phones of the future.
My favorite is the center – mp3-player- nasen-haar-tribs, and crème br'lée fackel.
And, until now, they should not have seen this in their business, they can be sure they will soon become.
And what it is doing is bringing people to business and asking this question.
Do you know what the answer to this question?
The answer is "No."
It is not possible to buy a mobile phone that does not do too much.
In other aspects of life, which are much more significant than buying headwinds, the same explosion of choice is true.
Health – it is no longer the case in the United states that they go to doctors and doctors tell them what to do.
Instead, they go to doctors, and doctors tell them: we could make a or we could make B.
A has these benefits and risks.
B has these benefits and risks. What do you want to do?
And they say, "Doctors what to do?"
Doctors say that a has these benefits and risks, and B has the benefits and risks.
What do they want to do?
And if you say, "If I were doctors, what would you do?"
Doctors say, "But I am not."
The result is – we call it "Patients autonomy," Sounds like a good thing, but in reality, a shift in the burden of responsibility for someone who knows something – namely, doctors who don't know and is most likely to make a decision not in the first constitution.
There is a huge marketing of prescription drugs for people like them and me, which, if they think about it, does not make sense at all because we don't buy them.
Why are they courting us if we cannot buy?
The answer is that they expect us to call the doctors on the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription.
Something as deep as our identity is now a question of how to show this slide.
We inherit no identity; we invent it.
And we are reinventing ourselves as often as we want.
That means that every day when you wake up to tomorrow, you must decide what kind of person you want to be.
When it comes to marriage and family, there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everyone had one, and that they could marry as fast as they could, and then get children as quickly as they could.
The only real choice was "Who, not when, and not what they did after it.
Today, everything is easy.
I teach wonderful smart students, and I give them 20% less work than I did earlier.
And that is not because they are less smart, not because they are less carefully.
It is because they are busy with other things, ask themselves, "Should I marry or not? Should I marry now?
Should I marry later? Should I have children or make a career? "
These are all incoming questions.
And they will answer these questions regardless of whether this means making all the tasks I owe, not a good note in my course.
And, indeed, they should do so. These are important questions to answer.
Work – we are blessed, as Carl illustrated, with technology that enables us to work every minute from every day on the planet – to the Randolph hotel.
There is a corner, by the way, which I would not tell any of which the hoaflan works.
I will not tell them because I want to use it.
So what it means to make this incredible freedom of the choice we have to make decisions about work, again, and again, whether we should work or not work.
We can look at our children in football, and we have our cell phone on a hip, and our coallied with another hip, and our laptop probably on our lap.
And, even if they are all turned off, every minute in which we look at our child at genital mutilation of a football game, we ask ourselves, "Should I
Should I answer this email? Should I write this letter? "
And, although the answer to the question of "No," It will certainly be very different from her child's experience of the football game.
Everywhere we look, big things, material, and lifestyles, and lifestyle, are a matter of choice.
And the world in which we lived looked like this.
I want to say that there were some choices, but not all was a matter of choice.
And the world in which we now live looks like this.
And the question is that good or bad news?
The answer is "Yes."
We all know what is good about this, so I will be bad about it.
All of these companies have two effects, two negative effects on people.
One effect, paradoxical, is that it is paralyzing rather than free.
With so many options you can choose, people are very hard to decide at all.
I will give you another drastic example of a study on investment in voluntary retirement
A kolin me had access to investment acts of Vanguard, the vast fund society of roughly one million employees, and about 2,000 different jobs.
And what it found was a 10 investment fund that employers offered was to participate by 2%.
They offer 50 investment funds – 10% less employees than they offer only 5%. Why?
Because it is 50 investment funds to choose, it is so difficult to decide what to choose to postpone it tomorrow.
And then tomorrow, tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, of course, never comes.
Understand that this does not only mean that people must eat in dog food if they retire because they don't get enough money, it means making decisions so hard that they miss large investments in their employers.
By not participating, they spend up to $5,000 us per year on the employer who would have been happy to multiply their contribution.
Paralysis is a consequence of too many choices.
And I think the world is doing so.
They really want to make the decision right if it is forever?
They do not want to choose the wrong investment fund, or even the wrong salatdressing.
So that is an effect. The other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision, we are less satisfied with the outcome than if we had the opportunity to decide between less options.
And there are several reasons for this.
One of them is due to the big choice of different salatdressings when they buy one, and it is not perfect – and, what salatdressing has been perfect? It is easy to imagine that they could have made another decision better, and what happened to the alternative.
The more opportunities there are, the easier it is to regret at all, which is disappointing for the election they make.
Second, what economists call on pertunity costs.
Dan Gilbert made a big point tomorrow by telling how much we assess things depends on what we compare it.
Well, when there are many alternatives to concerns, it is simply to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that exclude them, that makes them less satisfied with the alternatives they chose.
Here is an example. I apologize for those who are not new York.
But here is what they should have thought.
Here is a few on the Hamptons.
Very expensive real estate.
Brave brave beach.
What could be better? "the man thinks," It is August.
Everyone in my Manhattan neighborhood is gone.
I could park park directly before my house. "
And he is spending 2 weeks from the idea he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day.
Opperchment costs reduce happiness that we receive by our choice, even if what we have chosen is great.
And the more opportunities to choose, the more attractive properties of this choice will be considered in the cost of permissions.
Here is another example.
Now, this cartoon makes some statements.
He makes a statement about life now, and perhaps things slowly to do.
But an important point he makes: whenever you choose one thing you don't choose other things.
And these other things may have many attractive properties, and what they will do is less appealing.
Third, escalation of expectations.
This hit me when I wanted to share my jeans.
I wear jeans, almost all the time.
And there was a time when there was only jeans of a kind, and they bought them, and they had poorly fit, they were incredibly uncomfortable, and when they had long backed enough and often lawed enough, they started to feel "OK".
So, after many years of the old trail, I said, "I would like to buy some jeans, here is my size."
And the seller said, "Do you want leaner, easy, or wide?
Do you want dilution or dismantling stone or acid?
Do you want jeans with holes?
If you want to tailor down, you know, blah … "And so forth he told.
My jaw was down, and after I recovered, "I would like to have the way the only way it once was."
He had no idea what this was, so I spent an hour trying all of these damn jeans, and said the business – and I say the truth – with the best jeans I had ever had.
I had better. All of these choices allowed me to do better.
But I felt worse.
Why? I wrote a whole book to try to explain it.
The reason that I felt worse was that all of these available opportunities, my expectations for what is good couple jeans did.
I had very low expectations. I had no concrete expectations when it was only in a way.
When they came to 100 species, one of them should have been perfect.
And what I got was good, but it was not perfect.
So I compared what I had expected, and what I had been disappointing compared to what I expected.
Adding opportunities to people's lives inevitably increases people's expectations about how well these possibilities will be.
And that leads to less satisfaction with the results, even if the results are good.
No one in the world of the marketing knows this, because if you would know all of you don't know what it is here.
The truth is more like this.
The reason that used to be better than anything worse than anything worse was to experience the experience that was a pleasant surprise.
Nowadays, in the world in which we live – we affluent, industrialized citizens, with perfection as an expectation – the best one can ever hope is as good as they expect.
They will never be pleasant. Because their expectations, my expectations, are high.
The secret to the bliss – that is what they all have come – the secret to the bliss are low expectations.
I want to say – a brief autobiographer moment – who I am married to a woman, and it is truly wonderful.
I could not have done it better. I did not decline.
But it is not always a bad cause.
Ultimately, a consequence of buying a bad seat jeans if there is only one kind of buying is that if you are unsatisfied, and ask why who is responsible, the world is responsible. What can you do?
If hundreds of different types of jeans are available, and they buy a disappointing one, and ask why who is responsible?
If it is equally clear that the answer is the question: it is.
They could have done better.
There is no excuse for mistakes with 100 different kinds of jeans in the field.
And, if people make decisions, and even if the results of decisions are good, they feel disappointed about themselves.
Clinical depressions exploded in the industrial world in the last generation.
I believe a significant – not the only, but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression, and suicide is that people have felt the disappointing because their standards are so high, and then when they have to explain these experiences, they think it would be their guilt.
And, as a result, the balance sheet is that we are generally doing better, objective, and we feel worse.
So let me remember.
This is the official dogma that one we all hold right is entirely wrong; it is not true.
There is no question that something is better than no, but it does not follow the more choice better than choice.
There is a magic amount. I don't know what it is.
I am fairly certain that we have long missed this point in choosing our common good.
Now, as a matter of principle – I am nearly finished – a principle that is about the cause, which enables all of these choices in developed societies is wealth.
There are many spots in the world, and we have heard of many of them whose problem is not too much choice.
Their problem is that they have too little.
So things about which I speak are a special problem of modern, rich, western societies.
And what is so frustrating and incumbent: Steve Levitt has told them yesterday about how these expensive and difficult to install provincial provincial seats – a waste of money.
What I tell you is that these expensive, complicated decisions – it is not easy to help them.
They even hurt.
They make it worse.
If something of what makes our society possible to make decisions to the societies where people would have too little choice, it would not only improve people's lives, but also improve our dignity.
Economists call this a pareto-improvement effort.
Income distribution will ensure that everyone is doing better – not just the poor – because all of these big choices plagues us.
Finally, read this cartoon, and an advanced person says, "Ah! What does this fish know?
They don't know the gold glass. "
Impoverished fantasy, a short-sighted view of the world – and that the way I read it first.
The more I have thought about it, the more I think the fish knows something.
For the truth is that if you break the gold glass, you have no freedom, you have paralysis.
If they break the gold glass, so that everything is possible, they reduce happiness.
They increase paralysis and reduce happiness.
Everyone needs a gold glass.
This is almost limited to perfect security – perhaps for the fish, definitely for us.
But the abhanden is a recipe for misery, and, I suspect, disaster.
Thank you very much.
They know, I have spoken about some of these projects earlier, about the human genome, and what could mean, and about the discovery of new groups of genes.
Indeed, we start from a new point: we have digitized biology, and now we are attempting to enter into a new phase of biology by building new lives and building.
We have always sought important questions.
What is life? It is something I believe that many biologists have tried to understand and at different levels.
We have tried to simplify it to the minimal components.
We have digitized nearly 20 years. When we sequence the human genome, the switch from the analogue world of biology to the computer's digital world.
Now we are trying to ask whether we can regenerate, or whether we can create new lives from this digital universe?
This is the map of a small organism, Mycoplasma geitalboard, which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the laboratory, and we have sought whether we can achieve it with an even smaller genome.
We have managed to forego about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here.
But if we look at this metabolic card that is very simple, compared to our trust, it is simple. But if we all see these genes that we eliminate one after another, it is very unlikely to lead to a living cell.
As a result, we have decided that the only way forward is to synthesize this all that allows individual components to vary and thus to issue some of these fundamental issues.
So we began with the question, can we synthesize a single?
Is it possible to create these really big molecules, which has never been made before?
And, if we can do so, can we take the all of this?
A single factor is thus a slice of inefficient chemical material.
Our steps in digitizing life were exponentially.
Our ability to write genetic code has grown very slowly, and our last point would now be on a exponential curve.
We started 15 years ago.
Indeed, it took some years to start with a bioethical review before we made the first experiments.
As it turns out, DNA tization is very difficult.
There are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can produce small pieces of DNA, but it is 30 to 50 letters for a degeneral process, so the longer one makes a piece of power, all the more mistakes happen.
So we had to develop a new way to sit down these small pieces and correct the mistakes.
This was our first attempt, beginning with the digital information, phi x 174.
It is a small virus of bacteria.
We produced small pieces, made a flaw correction, and had some 5,000 letters DNA.
The exciting phase came when we took this piece of inefficient chemical and gave a bacteria, and the bacteria began reading the genetic code and made viral particles.
The viral particles were then released by cells and came back and killed E. Coli.
Recently, I spoke with the oil industry, and they said that they were doing exactly.
They laugh more than they do here.
For example, we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your hardware in a biological system.
But we wanted to go much further. We wanted to build an entire bacterium; it has more than 580,000 genetic code, so we thought that we built it in a ccp of the size of the virus, changing the size of the cyprus in order to understand what the components of a living cell are.
Design is the key, and if you want to launch digital information in the computer, this digital information must be truly flawed.
When we first sequence the genome in 1995, the faulty was a mistake of 10,000 basenks.
We found 30 mistakes in resettlement. If we had used the original sequence, it would never have been possible to drive up.
Part of the design is to create pieces for the 50 letters and overlap with other 50-letter letters to build smaller sub-units to fit them together.
We have unique elements here.
They may have heard that we have built watershed.
Think about it: we have a 4-letter code: a, C, G, and T.
Triplets of this letter – this letter code is about 20 amino acids; and there is a single destiny for each of these amino acids.
So we can use the genetic code to write our words, phrases, thoughts.
First, we just signed.
Some people were disappointed that it was not poetry.
We constructed the pieces so that we could simply disintegrate them with cycles; there are enzymes that repair them and cohesion.
And we have started to create pieces, beginning with the fif- or seventh letters involved, adding them to 24.Pieces of letters in each other to bring them together, up to 72,000.
In every step, we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them, because we tried to create a very robust process, which they will see in a minute.
We have tried to get to the point of automation.
So this looks like a basketball plaff.
If we get to these very large crops – with more than 100,000 basencouples – they will not simply grow into E. Coli; it will surpass all the opportunities for modern molecular biology, and so we turned to other mechanisms.
We knew from a program of homologist recombination that uses biology to repair the DNA that can cohesion.
Here is an example of this. There is an organism called Deinococcus radio durans of the three million wheel of radiation.
They see in the upper field that its all apart.
12 to 24 hours later, everything has become as cohesive as it was.
We have thousands of organisms who can do so.
These organisms can be totally exhausted; they can even live in a vacuum.
I am absolutely certain that life can exist in outer space and move to search for indoor conditions.
Indeed, NASA has shown that there are much of them out.
Here is a framework of inclusion from the molecules we have produced by using these processes - indeed, we have used only hefed mechanisms with the right design of the pieces that we fit it together automatically.
This is not a low-cost bloc.
It is such a big gene that we can even see it with the light physicist.
That is a permanent 6 seconds.
That is where we have recently met.
This is more than 580,000 letters in the genetic code, which is the largest molecules with defined structure ever created by people.
It has a molecular weight of more than 300 million.
If we were to print it from 10 and without reductions, it would include 142 pages only to print this genetic code.
Now, how do we launch a all? How will we activate it?
Obviously, it is very simple to deal with a virus; it is much more complicated with bacteria.
It is just as easier if you are in eu karyonts as we are, you simply take the nucleus out and give another inside, and that is exactly what you have heard about the cloning.
In archaeological bacteria, but it is only recently integrated, we have shown that a complete transplant of a cell can be able to make and activate them.
We cleaned the isolation of a microspecies, roughly said, these two are related to each other, such as humans and mice. We gave some extra-genes to choose that all of the proteins – and it was very surprising as we put it into a cell – and we were getting our graphic.
The new cash went into the cell.
Indeed, we thought that this is the end, but we have been trying to bring the process a bit further.
This is the main mechanism of evolution.
We find all species of species that have taken a second all of all species, or a third of all kinds of characteristics added to a species in just one minute.
So people who imagine evolution as a gene changed at a time have missed much of biology.
There are enzymes called restricypes that are indeed distrust of DNA.
The every dollar in the cell was neither; the chromosomes we have inflicted.
It was exempted in the cell and recognized the rest of the boat as xenophobic material, and we had only a cell with a new all.
It colors blue for genes we had inflicted.
And, after a very short time, all the characteristics of the species had lost, leaving it entirely into a new species based on the new software we gave into the cell.
All of the proteins changed the reef – when we read the genetic code, it was precisely what we transacted.
It may sound like genomics alchimie, but we can change things fairly dramatically by shifting software DNA.
Now I argue that this is not the latest – based on 3.5 billion years of evolution.
And I argued that we may be creating a new form of the kambran explosion that could give massive new species education based on this digital design.
Why should we do so?
I think it is quite obvious about what we need.
We are growing from six and nine billion people over the next 40 years.
To put it, I was born in 1946.
Today, three people on the planet have existed for each of the year in 1946; within 40 years it will be four.
We have problems with food, with fresh and clean water, medicine, fuel for 6.5 billion people.
It will challenge the 9.
We need more than five billion tons of coal, 30-plus billion barrels of oil, a hundred million barrels on the day.
If we think about biological processes, or replace any process of doing so, there will be a huge challenge.
Then, of course, there is all CO2 from this material landing in the atmosphere.
We now have our discoveries from around the world, a database with about 20 million genes, and I want to believe that these are the design components of the future.
The electronics industry had a dozen components, and they see the diversity that emerged.
We are ridding primarily to the limits of biological reality and the idea of our idea.
Today, we have technologies, owing to this rapid array of ways to do what we call combination genetics.
We now have a big robot to build the millions of chromosomes a day.
If you imagine making these 20 million different genes, or to optimize these processes at octan or produce drugs of new vaccines, we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science.
And it is only nurtime selection; we can selectively adopt livelihoods, production of chemicals or fuel production, and so on.
This is an inclusion of effective design software to which we are actually placing and designing new species on computers.
You know we don't necessarily know what it will look like; we know exactly what the genetic code will look like.
We are now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation.
They have recently seen corn as a bad experiment.
We have greenhouse fuels of the two and third generation that will soon have the much higher sugar conditions, such as octan or different kinds of butanol.
But, as we think that the only kind of biology will have a big impact without further increases in the cost of food or restrictions on their availability, when we see CO2 as initial material, so we are working to cells that go away.
And we think that we will be the first of the fourth generation's fuel, and that is about 18 months.
Sunlight and CO2 are a way.
-- but in our discovery of the world, we have all kinds of different methods.
This is an organism we have described in 1996.
He lives in the deep sea, roughly one-mile miles, near cooking water temperatures.
CO2 changes in methane by the use of hydrogen as a source of energy.
We can examine whether we can use stored CO2 that could simply be produced to produce production, converge the CO2 in fuel to drive this process.
Within a short period of time, we believe that we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life.
Do you know, we really have – moderate targets like the replacement of the entire petrochemical industry. If you cannot do so at TED, where else will a major source of energy?
But we are now working to use the same approaches to developing vaccines.
They have seen it this year with flu, we are always backfire and have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine.
I think that this can be changed by making recombined vaccines in advance.
This is what the future may look like with changes, the evolution tree can now accelerate with synthetic bacteria, archaen, and perhaps eu karyonts.
We are more years away from improving human beings; our goal is merely that we have a chance to survive long enough to survive that, thanks to!
At the last TED conference, I offered an introduction to the broadcasts.
And I promised to come back to explain how the machine works.
So it is so far. And for all those who were not there, the general general general is the biggest scientific experiment ever addressed – 27 miles in diameter.
Its task is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a minute after the universe began – and up to 600 million times within a second.
It is simply breathtaking.
This is the machine below Geneva.
We take images of these mini-bang all in detectors.
I work on this. I call ATLAS device – 44 meters in the range, 22 meters in diameter.
Here is a spectacular picture of ATLAS in construction to see the size of scale.
On September 10 last year, the machine was the first time.
And this picture has been absorbed by ATLAS.
It caused immense judicial checks and balances.
It is an image of the first radiation fiction that set the entire wayside by the general general, then deliberately dealt with a part of the broadcasts to release a rain of particles on the site.
In other words, when we saw this picture on September 10, we knew that the machine works, which is a great triumph.
I don't know whether this generated the most judiciously, or as someone visited the Google side and took the front side.
It means that we achieved cultural influence alongside the scientific world.
Around a week later, there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires – these golden wires.
These linkages induce 131,000 ampere when the machine amounts to high-performance.
Now those who are told to see them and say, "No they do. They are small wires."
They can afford that because they cool them very far, they become so-called superconductors.
So, at minus 271 degrees, sometimes older than the space between the stars, these divisions can withstand the tension.
In one of the ties between more than nine-thousand magnets in the broadcasts, there was a manual defect.
As a result, the wires were heating up slightly and 13-thousand suddenly resonated with electronics.
That was the result.
Now, all of this is even more impressive if you imagine that the magnets outweigh 20 tons and shifted by about 30 centimeters.
So we damaged about 50 of the magnets
And they had to remove what we did.
We repaired them, repair them.
They are all back on their way.
In the end of March, the broadcasts will be operational again.
We will change it, and expect to collect first data in June or July, and continue our journey to find out what the universe's building blocks are.
Now, of course, such accidents can be reversed to the debate about the value of science and engineering, which is easy to reject something.
I think the fact that it is so difficult to intervene beyond our borders is the value of things like the general general.
I would leave my final words to an English scholar Humphrey Davy, who, as I suspect, when he defended his teaching experiment, his teaching was "Complete, Michael Faraday said," Nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind than to assume that our scientific memory is not profound.
Thank you.
I am a novelist.
Books are my profession, of course, but it is more than that.
It is my great, lifelong love and fascination.
And I do not expect this to change.
But recent things have happened in my life and career, which has brought me to reconsider my relation to this work altogether.
This equity event was that I recently wrote a book – a bipartisan named'eat, Pray, '– which decided, unlike all of my previous books in the world, and became a big mega-event, international bestseller thing.
The result is that, no matter where I come, I would be treated as if I refused the demise.
The demise of death!
For example, they are very worried about me and say, "Don't you fear that you will never exceed that success?
Do you not fear that you rewrite your entire life and never create a book that anyone in the world want?
Okay, the power really courage.
But it would be worse if I did not remind me that I was more than 20 years ago, when I first told myself that I wanted to be the novelist, confronted with the same kind of anxiety.
People said, 'are you not afraid to succeed?
Do you have no fear that you reverse the humiliation?
Do you have no fear that you leave this power for your life and you never have something to happen, and that you will die on a scrapped dreams – your mouth filled with the bitter ash of failure?
For example, they know.
The answer – the short answer to all these questions is: 'yes.
Yes, I fear all of these things.
And I always had it.
And I have much more fear that no one would appreciate.
Like seaweed – and other scary things.
But, when it comes to writing, I have lately been asking me: why?
Is this reasonable?
Is it logical that someone should be expected to be afraid of doing the work he feels about?
And what is going on with creative ventures that they make us uncertain about the mental state – in a way that other occupations do not?
My father, for example, was chemists, and I can't remember my situation in his 40 years as a chemists he asked whether he would have been afraid to be chemists.
With your chemical blockade, John – what about you?
They simply did not know?
But, to be fair – the group of chemists have not received the centuries of reputations of alcohoan-depressive people.
But we novelist seem to have this kind of reputation, but not only the novelist, but the creative of all genres who seem to have this reputation become mentally unstable.
All they need to do is to look at the bitter death figures of really great minds in the twentieth century that young and often died from their own hands.
And even those who did not commit suicide seemed to have been negligible from their talent.
Norman Mailer said just before his death in his last interview: 'every of my books killed me a little further.
An extraordinary statement that they can do about their life.
But we don't even hear something like this, because we know this kind of statements for so long, somehow we accepted the view so internally and collectively that creativity and suffering are somehow cohesive, and that art – at the end – leads to the spirit of the spirit.
The question I want to ask anyone here today is this idea: is it entirely okay?
Do you feel like it? Because, with only one centimeter... I don't feel comfortable at all.
I find them disgusting.
And I find them dangerous, and I do not want to see how it is taken into the next century.
I find it better if we live our great creative encouraged.
And I certainly know that it would be very dangerous for me – in my situation – start beginning to downturn this dark path of the presumption – especially the fact that I have just found in my career.
That means, you see: I am quite young; I am just about 40 years old.
I may have another 40 years of work.
And it is highly likely that everything I will be evaluated from the world as the work that came after my final book's success?
I say it, because we are all friends now – it is highly likely that my biggest success is behind me.
Oh Jesus, what a thought!
These are the kind of thought that someone can get to start at 9 a.M., drink gin, and I don't want to do so.
I would rather do that work I love.
So the question is: how?
After some time of the reflections, I seem to think that I must continue to write a kind of protective psychological construct.
Somehow, I must find a way to maintain a safe distance between me and my very natural mitigation about how the response to the writing will be.
While I searched for models last year to do so, I searched in the past, and I have tried to find other societies to see whether they might have better or reasonable ideas about how to help creative deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity.
This search led me to old Greece and the old Rome.
Please follow me, because the circle will resign.
But, in the old Greece and Rome, people did not believe that creativity comes from people, okay?
They believed that creativity was a kind of divine reflection that comes from a distant, unknown source of people – for unexplained, unknown reasons.
The Greeks called the divine divisions of'demons creativity.
Of the crown, he was known that he believed that he would have fared a death that he refused.
The Roman had the same idea, called this kind of body'creative spirit a'genius.
That is great. The Roman didn't really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual.
They believed that a genius was this kind of divine nature, which was believed that it lives literally in the walls of a British profession – roughly as Dobby, the house 11, and the artist in work would be invisible and shape the result of work.
That is brilliant – there is the distance I spoke – the psychological construct that protect you from the consequences of your work.
And everyone knew that it worked, right?
The artist of aging was preoccupied with some things, such as, too much narcissism, right?
If your work brilliant was a conntest you don't look for you; everyone knew you had this useless genius that helped you.
If your work turned out – not entirely your mistakes, or?
Everyone knew that your genius was wrong.
For example, people in the west have genuinely long thought about creativity.
And then the Renaissance and everything changed. We had this great idea, and this great idea was: let us put the individual into the center of the universe – all gods and mysterious, and there is no room for mystical beings who take orders from divine.
It is the beginning of rational humanism, and people began to believe that creativity came entirely from the individual.
For the first time in history, people say a genius for those or artists – rather than that of he has a genius.
I must tell you: I think that was a big mistake.
Do you know? I consider allowing a mere person to think he or she is like the vessel, like the basin, and the essence, and the source of all divine, creative, unknown, unfulfilled, is a small too much responsibility to impose a fragile, human psyche.
It is like someone to swallow the sun.
That entails and skews entire egos, creating all of these unachievable expectations of success.
I think that this success has destroyed our artists of the last 500 years.
And, if that is true – and I think it is true – the question is:
Can we change?
Perhaps an aging knowledge about the relationship between people and the mystery of creative.
Perhaps not.
Perhaps we cannot easily trigger the thought well from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute presentation.
And there are certainly people in this audience who would claim genuinely legitimate scientific doubts about the idea of – fundamentally – featuring people's aftermath, and apply intense magic to their projects and so forth.
I will probably not take all of them on this trip.
But the question I want to raise is: why not?
Why not think so?
For it makes much sense like anything I heard when it comes to declaring the absolutely crazy capriciousness of the creative process.
A process that – like anyone who has ever tried to make something – in other words, everyone here – does not always behave reasonably.
Indeed, it can sometimes feel even paranormal.
I recently met such an encounter as I met the extraordinary American subsidiaries in Ruth stone, who is now more than 90, but she was a subsidiary for her entire life; she told me that she was working out in the field in the village of Virginia, who said she would listen to the landscape.
She said it would be like a no-fly train.
The country on them would roles.
It felt when it came, because it would put the earth beneath its feet.
She knew that she could do just one moment in her words – 'race like the devil.
It ran like the devil to the house while being pursued by this poem; it was only about having to get quickly enough to a leaf, and a pen to capture it if it could capture through them and stick on the tables.
In other words, she was not quick enough; he ran and ran and ran; but she didn't get the house and the poem by them; she missed it; she said it would continue to pull over land and – as she said, 'look for another poet.
And then there were these moments – the part of I would never forget – saying that there were moments in which they were almost
So she is running to the house and addiction to paper, and the poem is driving through her, taking down a pen just as she goes through and then – she said – it was as if her other hand had to pick up and get it.
It turned the poem to its tail, and drew it back into its body, and took on the tables.
In these occasions, the poem came freely and intact on paper – but backwards – from the last word to the first.
When I heard this, I thought, 'that is scary – exactly how my creative process is happening.
This is not like my creative process – I am not the channel!
I am a silver lining; I need to stand up to work every day, and sweat, I am hard, and genuinely unpleasant.
But even I have sometimes strengthened this thing in my multuous way.
And I estimate that many of them have done so.
Even I had work or ideas that came from a source of mine that I really cannot identify.
What is this for one thing?
And how do we engage with this without losing our sense, but even on the contrary to intellectual health?
For me, the best living example is how to create that can Tom Waits, and I took him a magazine interview a few years ago.
We spoke about this issue. And do you know what? Most of his life, Tom was the embodiment of the embarrassing modern artist, who tried to master this uncontrollable creative stimulus in him and deal with them.
But then he was older and quiet, told me that he was going to Los Angeles one day, and everything changed for him.
He went at a high speed when he suddenly heard a small fragment of a tune that is often difficult for him, and he wants to have them, and he is filled with him, but he cannot think it.
He has no piece of paper; he has no pen; he has no ccp record.
So it begins to move this old tightening into him, such as'i will lose this thing, and that song will last forever.
I am not good enough, I cannot.
But, instead of panic, he stopped listening.
He ended the idea and did something entirely new.
He simply looked in the sky, saying, 'excuse, can you not see me driving cars?
'do I look like I might just write a song?
If you really want to exist, come at a more favorable moment when I can care about you.
If not, quals are someone else today.
You and quals Leonard Cohen.
His entire labor process has changed after that.
Not the work itself, which was often as dark as ever.
But the process and the severity surrounding him was lifted when he came out of the genius, where he had nothing caused in trouble and left him where he came to speak, recognizing that it had to be an internally tormented thing.
There could be an owner, miraculous, bizarre collaboration, a kind of conversation between Tom and the xenophobic thing that was not quite Tom.
When I heard this story, it changed a bit of the way I worked, and it saved me once.
This idea saved me when I was in the midst of'eat, Pray, 'i fell into one of the doubts of the doubt we all fall when we work in something, and you start thinking that a disaster will be written the worst.
Not only bad, but the worst of all times.
I started thinking, I should simply pick up the project.
But then I was reminded of how Tom had spoken in the free sky, and I tried.
So I emphasized my view of the manuscripts, and I spoke my comments toward a empty corner of the space.
I said, 'stop you, you, you, and I know both when this book is not brilliant that it is not entirely my guilt?
For you see that I have everything I have, I have no longer investment.
So if you want to do better, you must change here and keep your share of the deal.
Okay. But if you don't do so... You know what, then the devil.
I will still write further, because that is my job.
And I wish to offer minutes that I was now part of the jobs here.
For … at the end, it is like this. Centuries ago, the north Africa's people have gathered mockery with holy sticks and music that have been held for hours – until the dawn of day.
This firm was always great, because the dancers were professional, and they were terrific.
But, again, very rare, something happened, and one of the performers was actually outsized.
And I know that they know what I mean, because I know that they all have seen such a show in their lives.
It was the time to stand up and the dancers join a kind of pforte, doing nothing differently than he has ever done – 1,000 nights earlier. But all of them combined.
Suddenly, he no longer appeared in human rights.
It has been elicited by inward and wayward, and everything has been eluded by a divine fire.
When something happened then, people knew what it was; they called it in his name.
They put the hands together and began to sing: 'allah, Allah, Allah, god, god, god.
That is god, you know?
Interesting historical footnote: when southern Spain conquered it, the language changed over the centuries of'allah, Allah, 'olé, olé, olé, 'which is still struggling and fodder.
If an actor in Spain has done something impossible, a bit magic: 'allah, olé, Allah, Allah, Allah, Allah, great, great, favo, 'as it is: a fleeting look at god.
And that is great, because we need that.
But the slippery part of the next morning, when the dancers wake up and recognize that it is 11 on a plane, and he no longer bears a fifth of god.
He is merely an aging mortal with painful kours, and perhaps he will never be returning to these heights.
And perhaps someone will never call god once he turns, but what should he start with the rest of his life?
That is hard.
This is one of the most painful corrections of creative life.
But it may not have to be very full of pein if they did not believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of their dasone would be.
If you may only believe that you are a bond – from an unimaginable source of your life passed on to someone else when you cope with it.
When we start thinking, it changes everything.
For example, I started thinking and I certainly worked in the past few months, while I worked in the book that will seem soon – as the dangerous, frightening, highly expected successors of my dismissed success.
What I must always say when I will get crazy: don't fear.
If not discouraged.
Get your job.
If your contribution remains, whatever he might be.
If your job is dancing, tance.
If the fool's divine genius that you have on your side decides to show a simple moment as wonders by your effort, 'olé!
And if not, tance will dance.
And'olé! 'for all of you
I believe it and I feel that we should learn the lessons.
'olé! 'for all of you, simply to be the mere human love and self-interest.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Olé!
Last year, I showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic eiske, which had the size of the bottom 48 states, has shrunk by 40%.
But this does not depress the seriousness of this particular problem, because it does not show the fat of ice.
In a sense, the arctic ice app is the wreak heart of our global climate system.
It is growing in winter and shrinking in the summer.
The next slide I show to you is a bumpy illustration of what has happened in the last 25 years.
The permanent ice is marked with red.
As they see, it is growing on the darkly blue, which is the annual ice in winter; and it is shrinking in the summer.
The so-called permanent ice, five years old, or older, is almost like blood that releases from the body.
In 25 years, it will have disappeared from here.
This is a problem, because warming is the frozen reason for the arctic ocean, where there are plenty of frozen carbon, which, if it is used to implement microbes on methane.
Compared to the total amount of climate-changing materials in the atmosphere, this amount could double if we exceed this critical point.
Already, in some flat lakes in Alaska, methane is now bubbling from water.
Professor catey Walter the university of Alaska has been traveling with another low-see winter.
Oh!
They are doing well. The question is how to do it.
And one reason is that the vast warming of Greenland is north.
This is an annual flux of water.
But the volume is far greater than ever.
This is the changerlussuaq river in South west Greenland.
If they want to know how sea levels rise through land meltdown, it is at the sea.
These rivers are growing rapidly.
On the other end of the planet, Antarctica, the largest ice mass on the planet.
Last month, researchers reported that the entire continent has a negative ice record.
And the west Antarctica, which has emerged over a few marine islands, is particularly strong in melting.
This is equivalent to 20 feet, as Greenland.
In the Himalayas, the third-largest ice mass, they see new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago.
40% of the world's people get half of their drinking water from this melting water.
In the Dean of these glaciers, these glaciers are the source of water for this city.
Water volumes have increased.
But if they sealed, most water will drop away.
In California, a 40% reduction in the Sierra leone was seen.
This concerns the storage basin.
And the predictions of how they read are serious.
This auction throughout the world leads to a dramatic increase in power.
And catastrophes around the world have increased in an extraordinary and unprecedented scale.
Four times as many in the last 30 years as in previous 75.
This is an entirely unsustainable development pattern.
If you look at this in historical context, you can see what it does.
Over the last 5 years, we produced 70 million tons of CO2 all 24 hours – 25 million tons every day in the oceans.
Look closely at the realm of the eastern Pacific, from the American continent of west and on the other side of the Indian subcontinent, where there is a sharp drop in the sea of oxygen.
The largest factor in global warming, alongside deforestation, which accounts for 20%, is burning fossil fuels.
Oil is a problem, and coal is the equivalent problem.
The United states is one of the two largest polluters, together with China.
And the proposal was to build many more coal factories.
But we are beginning to see a change.
Here are the ones that were withdrawn in recent years, with some green alternatives proposed.
Meanwhile, there is a political battle in our country.
And kohldustria and odious dustria spent a quarter of a $1 billion last year in order to run clean coal, which is already an oxymoron.
This picture reminded me of something.
To Christmas around, at my home in Tennessee, one billion tons of cohnev.
They have seen it in the news.
This is America's second-largest waste flow across the country.
That happened to Christmas.
One of the coal industry's advertising was Christmas.
Frosty of the coal is a happy, cheer, cheer bursche.
It exists in sub-Saharan America, and it helps our economy grow.
Frosty, the coal man will clean every day.
It is affordable and desirable, and workers remain in wage and bread.
This is the source of most coal in west Virginia.
The most powerful mining workers are the head of Massey coal.
Let me say a very clear one. Al Gore, Nancy Pelosi, Harry rice, you don't know what they talk about.
So the Alliance for climate change has created two campaigns.
That is one part of it.
At the COALergy, we see climate change as a serious danger to our business.
That is why we have put it on the top time to spend a substantial amount of money to bring an advertisement to the truth about coal.
The fact is that coal is not dirty.
We think it is clean – and it is also easy.
So they are not worried about climate change.
Let us be quiet.
Saudi coal, they have heard much of it.
So let us take a tour of this modern, clean coal factory.
This machine is quite loud.
But it is the sound of clean coal technology.
And yet burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming, the remarkable clean coal technology they see here is changing everything.
Look carefully, this is today's clean coal technology.
Finally, the positive alternative with our economic challenge and challenge of national security is mixed.
America is in a crisis, the economy, national security, the climate crisis.
The thread that binds them all is our reliance on carbon based fuels such as acts of mud coal and foreign oil.
But now there is a bold new solution to free us from this missible situation.
America is reutilized with 100% of clean electricity, within the next 10
A plan to bring America back to work to make us safer and help stop global warming.
Finally, a solution big enough to solve our problems.
American care is new.
This is the last.
America is about renewed care.
One of the fastest-way to reduce our reliance on old acts of raw materials that stifled our world.
The future is here. Wind, sun, and a new energy system.
New investments to create well-paid jobs.
Saved America; it is time to accept reality.
There is an old African adage: "If you want to be fast, you walk alone.
If you want to get far, you go together. "
We must come well, and fast.
Thank you.
I want to start asking them to think about the time of their childhood, when they played a lot of construction.
While they recognized how to take their hands out and take advantage of the clauses and move, they actually learned to think about and solve problems through understanding and changing more connections.
Geographic thinking is closely linked to how we understand much of our environment.
As computer scientists - inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects – together with my expert adviser and my colleagues Jeevan Kalanithi, I started to wonder: what if we were using computers, rather than a mouse timeline, which would be like a digital fingertip … and what?
This question was so different that we decided to explore the answer and Siftables developed.
In short, a Siftable computer is an interactive computer in the size of a ked.
They can move with one hand, they can detect each other, and they have a screen and a radio recipient.
Much more important, they are physically, which is why they can only move through the full of the hands and access.
And Siftables are an example of a new generation of aid to manipulation digital data.
And when these tools become physical and develop awareness of their movements, recognize each other and the enemies of our transition with them, we can begin to start research with new and entertaining interaction.
I begin with some simple examples.
This Siftable video is touted for configurice, and when I put it in a direction of tipping, the video will play forward; if I put it in the other direction, it is backwards.
And these 18 identities are mutually true.
So, if I put them together, that will inspire their interest.
If you are surrounded by you, you notice that, and you can get something nervous.
And they also feel their movements and propensity.
An interesting consequence of the interaction we began to recognize was that we could use one of everyday gestures on data, such as color, as to do with liquidity.
In that case, we have three Siftables as bafigurice, and I can use it to spill color in the middle where they are mixed.
If we overthrow it, we can get a little back.
There are also some fun ways in education, such as languages, mathematics, or logistics games, where we give people the possibility of rapid breakthroughs and want to see the results immediately.
Here I am... That is a bipartisan consequence that I place with a simple equilibrium program.
This is a game with words that is a kind of mixture of Scrabble and Boggle.
In principle, every round on every Siftable letter, and, as one tries to form words, it will be tested on a lexicon.
Then, after about 30 seconds, another game is mixed, and one has a new letter of
Thank you.
These are some children who came to a venture to the media lab, and I was able to try it, and took a video of them.
They really loved it.
An interesting fact about this type of applications is that you don't have to give people the instructions.
All you need to say is "Words" And you know exactly what to do.
There are some people who test it.
This is our most recent beta-test-lost-right thing.
It turns out that he wanted to pile the Siftables only.
So, for him, they were only construction.
This is an interactive film twist.
We wanted to develop a learning tool for linguistic learning.
That is Felix.
He can bring new characters into the scene by highlighting the Siftable from the scene.
This is where it can lift the sun.
The sun goes on
Now he is catching up with a tractor.
The orange tractor.
Good work! Yes!
By electrifying the Siftables, he can cohesive the characters... Interact.
… invent his own story.
Hi!
It is a story with obvious end, and it can decide how it develops.
Flying cat.
The last example I have time to show it is a music board for a live champion that we recently developed and operate in the Siftables as a leader, as leadership, as leadership, and clout.
Each has four different variation; one can choose which one wants to use.
And one can feed these tones into the sequence that can be applied in any pattern.
And they feared by simply holding a ton-siftable game.
There are effects that can change live, such as hall and filter.
It combines it with a certain tone and then tends to hire it.
And then overarching effects, such as speed and loudly, which uses the entire sequence.
So let's look.
We are beginning to consume the leadership voice in two sequential sequential capacity and put it in a series, expand it, and add a little more voice.
Now I add a bas.
Now I will do something more.
And now I binding the filters with the clout so that I can manage the effect of live.
I can accelerate the entire sequence by slipping the pace at one or another direction.
And now I binding the filter even with the plas; for a bit more.
I can change the sequence during it.
By doing so, I must plan it not in the run-up, but can be made to move forward, extending or shorten it.
Finally, I can dismiss the entire sequence by cutting the loud-bolster Siftable to the left.
Thank you.
So, as you can see, my enthusiasm is to develop new human computer intersection that fits better with how our brains and bodies work.
Today, I had time to tell you a part of the new design world and some of the possibilities that we work in our laboratory.
The idea that I want to give you on the road is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of values to interact with digital media, bringing information into our world, equal to our requirements.
Thank you
I am delighted with the talks!
Yes, good day.
I am delighted that I am there.
Yes, what should biohacking be?
I need to get a little time, while biohacking is busy with modern molecular biology.
I study molecular biology and work for a few years with biohacking, and I started because I wanted to know more accurately, and, above all, what I learned in theory.
That was my primary motivation.
So it was a curiosity, and I wanted to get closer to the matter.
I think that molecular biology is generally spoken, so generally, biotechnology, everything that is worth, synthetic biology, and so on.
Extremely important, it is already extremely important, and much more important will become in the future.
There are so controversial things like these entire gm plants on the streets.
There are now Craig Venter in the United states, attempting to produce bio-fuel, so gasoline from seaweed.
There are also things that have arrived in daily life, but most people don't understand, for example, washing enzymes that allow us to wash with 40 degrees of laundering are also genetic optimized.
And the list can be endless.
So, in the interest of this technology, I have just gone further.
So what?
Most people know this from the software area.
Computers hack, and then the media is always so, yes, hackers break somewhere and steal data and so forth.
That is somehow sadder for the hackery scene, because it does not do what it actually started and what is really about.
And, while the software hackers, beginning in the 1970's, eighteenth-year computing, and the Internet has also emerged.
And it is about solving a problem with a game, creative, original way.
And the problem is not only a technical problem; it can also be a societal problem; it can also be a problem, which is easy to make things easier, so that any problem can issue a question, and how to make it better.
And it has become big enough for software, but there is also an electronics area, as there is a whole built-in that will make all sorts of things left with electronics sharing.
And now it is also toward biology, and as I want this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology, biology is an information science, because the bottom line is an abstract code that is, yes, it is not just as computers, because it is real matter.
But it is also a code, and I find it incredibly fascinating, and I simply wanted to get much deeper with it.
Indeed, this has only two thousand truly thought of these networks.
Because there are bubble-absorbing dot, originally from Switzerland, which is a network based with Europe and cooperation in India, but now members or active people around the world.
This is a more artistic alignment, so there are many artists and philosophers and collaboration with scientists who are busy addressing these technologies and asking questions about the creative process, with museexhibitions and yes, everything possible.
But it is always about finding such easy access, so that they have a capacity to deal with it.
And then there are assimilation self-bio dot, shortages.
This is a network that is actually more a kind of forum, where it is up and discussed online.
These are a bit technical and a bit of business moderate along the way, as well as applied questions.
And on these networks that have made the whole popular, there is a scene that I want to portray for a brief time.
Here in the light of the left, you see Biocurious, this is a hackerspace, which is, in principle, a kind of school, a private school club, where everyone can get.
Children, old, all kinds of people go in order to engage with a lab, and look at what can be done when these lab protocols.
On the left is a group in Indonesia, house-of-nature Fibers, but there is a pretty long time.
Even longer than these other two networks.
They are also engaged in an artistic aspect of biological materials and, yes, electronics factory, and combining it on a pretty diversion.
A group of Ankara I have met for a while ago, which is a student group who wanted to teach more about the public what they learned in university, and have made so on tough small actions and tried to explain to people what is the bottom line.
And I have a lecture in Copenhagen in the medical museum, together with an exhibit on the issue.
And that is, yes, that is mostly young people, but the only thing that unions all of them is that fascination with technology
And what can be done, and, at the very same time, is focused on society and asking, so, okay, what do you want, do you want to get your interest in bringing
So, in order to hack biology, you need material somehow.
Of course, biological materials need, and they also need tools, and that is a laboratory.
Specifically, what you usually understand under a laboratory, which is somehow discouraged machines, extremely expensive, extremely distant, only for professionals, trained academics with doctrines, and so on.
And our approach was just to say that it should not be done.
This is not necessary, because every coffee car car car car has actually higher technology than most laboratory equipment.
And s o, with this premise, for example, Brian Degger in England, has tried to reconcile a minimal allabor, then taken into a steam cohesion, a heated record, and, yes, supplements, and then bacteria has been built.
So anyone who has already been a soup of disruption that he has left too long has made.
I tried this in my lab at home, and then I bought my second-hand equipment on eBay and made a bit of low n.A analysis, tried to expand a façe test, so / .A fingerprinting, again at home.
This should not be a joke now, but it should.
There is the laboratory, in anchor leadership, so a pipe garage, with so much possible laboratory ruples that the university has cut, a group in Paris that has created what has created, and is quite successful, and also some interesting things to do.
And this is Biocurious, which just mentioned hackerspace, which is a kind of popular school in principle for molecular biology.
And, yes, it is relatively heterogeneous, so there are some people who do it alone at home to large organizations that are more formally engaged in institutionalized form
But it is always the approach that it should be easy and accessible.
The first project we have made as an international group when we were fully aware of ourselves, there is now us as a real scene, and we are online, and we are so aware of the people who always chat and so forth.
And then, the founder of self-bio web site, we have to do so now, including real meetings, and has organized two events in London, two thousand, ten, and just on the United states, San Francisco.
And, then, it was about bathing, who are we, what do we want, what do we want to tell?
And what are our values and what is our goal, our foundation?
And there is a code-of-conduct.
That was right to be intuitively, so everyone has just put his wishes, and what he will stop.
There, I think, was a very good code.
And that is not binding, but that is true, I think it is relatively well enforced that people are right to do so.
And we even tried to bring back into the academic world, but there is somehow no such thing.
So I believe that we are from the biohackery scene, even a step further than the academic world.
Yes, what do we do now?
A project I have made with the pecking network in Switzerland was that we wanted to construct a so-called optimal trap or optimal pinette.
That is when you focus a laser shine on a space, you can capture small particles in the air or move into the liquid, and then on that focus, so you are caught in, as a single single single market bloator in principle.
This really works, which is made in the academic setting, and we were supposed to bail out the wars we may also take place a petition that has slipped the lens, then you have a complicated hole that wiens about 100 centuries.
This is down.
And then we have reduced a billion v.D brenner and the brenner caught up with the bo, trying to focus on this camera.
Unfortunately, this has failed, but we have learned much about it.
Another project that has been made from the French group of Paris, which is pretty cool.
And, while he has such a thing, such a tipping point, e.G, or something, he has studied with neurobiology, his nickname is Sam Neurohack.
He then thened this helm, and the cooperation with the museum has gone.
As visitors could then resign in the room, put their seat on this chair.
Then their brain waves were measured, and, depending on what they thought or thought, different lights are in the room.
Was a fairly fateful project.
Another thing from the us to do with this fastest-history is the cpi c.R, which is the polymerchain reaction, complicated word.
So it is about copying genes to multiply, mega-n.A, fragmented, so that it can see it.
So, if I do so now, the interventionist in the scene will go, collect some hair samples, and then they turn the way, and then they can say that getting that light belongs to this person.
And the machines that do so are rather expensive to buy commercially, the cheapest will go up to €141,000.
And that is not in hobbyfield, but it is a really cool technology that can do much.
So this is only an application of many who can do so.
And there have been two conscribes, saying that we make easier and cheaper, and then have the very open source, so freely available hardware, electronics, that this machine is collapsing, and now those who have even brought the market to the world's drifting system.
I believe, somehow, that sixth dollar or something.
But, in any case, it is still not cheap, but it is certainly in a framework where it becomes far more available.
So, I believe, it is a very remote hack.
A project I first started was to build gene-gun.
Gene-gun is, yes, such as a type of airgun that overshoot about as far as two centimeters or so.
You invites mega-n.A to gold particles and the gold particles into this air gun, and then I shot the plug on the pieces, putting the lights on it.
So the device that you see is not worked.
But that is my prototype, which has looked quite my, so on a guest who has put it on the hook, electronics, and it has been too high, but the pressure has broken down.
And then I took one of them and joined it.
One sahnant of power with water has enough pressure, so I believe, 40 to sixth.
And, by doing so, they can accelerate the particles sharply, and then they go into the akble.
And, for example, the commercial machine costs about $5 / up, or something sahnese about the fifty.
So it does not have the same efficiency, but it is in principle feasible.
For example, at the moment, it is the core cause of the scene to increase the availability of technology, and increase information, and recognition that more people can engage with it.
Because, as in the beginning, it is an extremely important technology, and most people have relatively little idea of it, and no chance to become really good.
Because only reading about it, from secondary literature, that is not the same as once you have made it.
And I think technology will become increasingly important in our modern societies.
And if one wants to make meaningful decisions in society as informed citizens, and to talk about it, access to knowledge and technology needs.
And one must do and understand it to make it and understand it.
And that is then derived from open knowledge and science.
So the very nature of citizens is being able to address these scientific technologies.
And that is the core cause of biohackers.
These are the people who, at least officially, have been on the web site, g.Bio-dot-org website.
This is a relatively remarkable number of people worldwide.
And interesting is that they are also represented in Southeast Asia.
That is me that there are fewer people than actually exist.
So I know of some who have not agreed.
And that is now just the biohacker that individual people are.
In part, these hackerspaces, together with these places.
But that is at the beginning.
In say, two-thousand suspicion, it has only begun.
And hackerspaces, the computer hackerspaces, because the C base in Berlin was the first, nineteenth-century.
And that has now become a giant network of very good, yes, infrastructure centers that have been represented around the world.
And we hope, of course, that we will spread similarly, and then be similarly interconnected, so that there are more people to be involved.
And I would invite everyone to deal with it and try what it takes.
While it is not so simple, it is not impossible if there is enough curiosity and enough energy, then there is too far.
Thanks to listening.
That was it.
Yes, hi.
How do we work people?
This is a question that moves me very much than a designer, but also in the field of research usability and, above all, in user experience.
It is about how to meet people in an online media so that they can use these online online online media, thereby creating an satisfactory experience.
I believe that online media addresses us archaic, cognitive models that have been programmed in our biological memory very long, and that we can restore the very just through interactive media.
And that is very surprising, because it is actually believed that this high-tech technology that is being addressed is actually bringing one into the future, but, in fact, it is that the future is exactly in us, at our archaic roots.
What are archaic models now?
I wrote four times of words, and I would like to explain it shortly.
To archaic cognitive models, these are the models that we have suitable in pre-industrial times.
These archaic models include that we have a natural relationship to virtual.
That sounds unusually.
But I will go another way, and will prove to them by attempting that they have a natural relationship to virtual.
The second aspect is that we have been able to speak very well since these archaic models, though we are using a coding language nowadays.
And the third area, which actually explains itself.
We all know that online media are inherently linear by definition, which includes inclusion of lineum, and, of course, tells us that we feel the linear about today as normal.
The fourth point is that history is a place of information sharing for us.
How is this now with the virtual sphere that is the most natural cause of the world.
I want to show them.
How many doors have the house they live?
We will not answer them spontaneously, but this is what will happen, and is happening now.
They go in the spirit of this house, in which they live, and look at how many doors are.
That is exactly what they do.
They virtual reality, not without computers.
Great, or?
And, given that we are struggling to portray virtual reality in our v.R. Laboratory, we can do so all the time.
And this wealth virtual virtual reality, which has had badly needed people in pre-industrial times, because they had nothing.
They had no books.
Or none of them had photo olitography.
They had no mass media.
The only thing they had was their head.
And that head was remembered.
In that head, knowledge was devised, and through these virtual images, the imagination, the very knowledge was passed.
And that is why it is so deeply rooted in us that we can deal so well with virtuality.
The interesting thing about this is to make a small venture.
Yes, that is happening.
The interesting thing is that at this time, humans were simultaneously media producer and medium themselves.
If you keep thinking.
What are media today?
Then they will notice that there is a change.
But I am here to talk again.
The key tool of information intermediation has been stories since any.
Shamans, father, so-called knowledge watchdogs were taken extra to preserve knowledge in stories.
And today, we are still very strong in stories.
As the book the animal, Jonathan chall, we still comprise thousands of nine-year-old recipes.
This means a child that has spent the most time of his life with the recipe of stories to achieve the great age of age.
Now we think our love to stories depends on having sat on our parents'lap.
No, no, far from missing.
This goes far further, in the cultures of pre-industrial times.
But for me, in the realm of online media as particularly impressive, we have enshrined in our biological memory, the ability to think nonlinear.
I learned an example from the north American tribe of Nootka Indians.
And life lived in the coastal region of British Columbia.
And, as they can see, this is a very island Empire, and it had to navigate from iceland to get food.
And they have made this with so-called lead-land maps.
They may also know that if they are interested in this, from Australian peoples.
They have similar principles.
They have not used leadad-land cards, but they have used other nants or trauma fade.
And what is interesting is that navigation and topography have been seen across regions.
The language was subordinated by subordination.
That is, they have navigated echoes and on rhythm.
And these sounds and this rhythm have portrayed the geology that depicted the topography of a region, and, of course, has enabled these songs to fragmented and sit down and move back to the left, right, and again to the emerging market.
Why don't we sing to come from the top of a to B?
In any case, not to navigate.
What has happened?
This has happened to the machine age.
We have previously moved in the so-called oil-age.
Had the machine age happened, and the book has happened, the photo olitography has been.
And, while that has happened, we have shifted responsibility for our memories and their own production of our individual memories and information.
On the book and picture.
Unfortunately, we have virtual virtual tolerance for god.
Virtual ality has suddenly become alien to us, and has nothing to do with reality.
Frankbrown, a well-known design researchers at the Brighton university, has gone so far to say that this mass media, he says the book, and the picture, not television, the Internet, and so forth, what we call a mass media today that the mass media have tripled our memories.
Let's make a small intermediate balance.
From the oil-age to the machine age.
What does influences our thinking and thinking?
Then the combined impacts of pre-industrial cultures are palpable.
And they have been overwritten over the centuries and more by the machinery of the machine age.
This means, instead of reminiscent of ourselves individually, we have standardized, widespread, spread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories.
We no longer produce ourselves.
We have an abstract language of abstract.
We no longer think of things in images that do not more in images, but we are coding them our language.
We have accustomed to that things happen linear.
And we have accepted the linearity as law, and there are only exceptions, such as non-linear.
What we have left is the narrative.
We are still very arrested as an information intermediation.
The question is what comes next?
We had the voc, we had the machine age, and we now describe the so-called cyber age.
This sounds very spacig, and it sounds like science fiction.
But these concepts of the age of cyber, which bring us back to our capabilities.
There is a virtuality that is about non-linear thought.
I want to explain this a little time.
There are technical concepts, such as the upcoming reality, which means the broader reality.
So, for example, if you look at Google in a virtual world, then you can recombine the virtual world with the real world, which means our affinity to virtual virtual liberalization that is once a normal, natural one is addressed.
Another example is the so-called virtual reality.
Of course, the crazy thing I may sound in the context of my recalcitrant, as we are moving physically into non-existent virtual worlds, just after the holocid model.
And other examples are the ambitious, smart systems.
These are areas that can respond intelligently to people.
All of this needs the ability to accept our fundamental capacity to accept virtual habitat.
I am in complete and I hope that the video works, a very beautiful project, which is the undergraduate of Michael Burk, Ann-Kathrin krjoris Klause, and Jan-Moritz garbage er.
And the two more recently are here.
Perhaps you can stand up on the verge of having a conversation with the two on the project.
And I have brought this project as an example, as returned to this archaic, cognitive models.
The whole game is a game, I need to say
Of course, what is extremely accommodating is a computer game.
And if I say computer games, they are very likely to see that any people playing around with any kind of consolcy, or that they play in hand with some console
In any case, they do so.
This is a game for out.
And that is designed to discover the outside world, so I will discover the real world.
And that game combines virtual world, so the data combine the data that we produce with the real world.
I apologize for cutting so much.
You can explain that much better, because there is much more.
And while it is the point that I discover a city by watching positive or negative locations.
So I am getting a very different sight of the city, a very different impression: I see negative and positive zones of a city, getting a very different virtual map from a very real city.
And we can now look at this.
Ah, what you can see here, excuse, is another small explanation of what you see.
Of course, this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities, it is clear.
And, with a kind of nice, we can see these virtual worlds.
For example, I like to suade my talk, and in the sense that the traits and skills we have acquired from the age of the age, and which have lost us in the machine age that we can be turned back to the roots of the so-called cyber age, and that we can be activated in the future.
Thank you.
Yes, I am delighted to be happy with them.
I have just been asked if this bag is a fitting bag, and I will not speak.
He will not.
I will also dissolve what is there.
But, so far, I have been doing a bit curious.
Yes, children are inherently curious or should be curious, designer.
I am shaping the house, of course, involved with curiosity, and how curiosity changes our thinking, and why we may also lose curiosity and have to resume, and so forth.
This is a whole number of things to be considered in shaping themselves alongside the actual.
When professors are curious, they are often weakened in such a college of research.
And that is what I had last half-year.
A semester on natural user interface design.
Now they will wonder why all the shaping will begin to engage with so natural, archaic uranium forms of communication, interaction, and so on.
And, as I think only one of these small devices is high, because things are supposed to become increasingly intuitive, always natural, user, user friendly, and there must look at what is, of course, for us people, what is to use or intuitively.
And, before the background, I have studied computer in the field of natural user interface design, so the next generation of human computers in managing computers is transforming our tools or how computers are transformed from suzessive digital assistants.
So I deal with when, of course, or intuitively.
Perhaps another look.
Why does this happen at all?
So, as we look at the development of our society, we are now moving from the third in the fourth generation or social form.
So modern into computer society.
Each society is shaped by a primary medium.
At the beginning of the tribal society.
That is, one has found that a common language has been able to communicate, has been drawn into the same box or in other areas, has formed cities or villages, and thus created tribal society.
But the primary medium was the language, something very natural, a very vibrant one.
While it had to learn, not a small child can speak of nature, we are learning suzessive and proportionately.
This was then replaced by ancient society and the first form of abstraction.
This was a huge outcry then, of course, because it began to manifest the lively language in the form of rule, which means what is vibrant and alive, I catch it and set it in stone, and thus manipulating it.
Depending on how I set el and when I set el, it is, of course, quite different coverage than if one is alive, to speak.
But suzessive drew the same rule as the primary medium.
Then the next generation in which we actually live mainly today.
This is precisely the pressure and print shaped with Gutenberg and others.
Back then, it was just as an affront, where adel, klerus, and others have said: are you really insane when the people begin to read, then the after they want to talk, and that is, of course, fatal.
And now we come to the next generation and the exciting, a generational change is only a few hundred years, and we are really at this phenomenal stage that we are joining.
This puzzles us, of course, because we see the new media, social media, facebook, and so on.
With total transparency, which is the new thinking, which has hit the old thinking, doesn't say that in the dgs of copper, and no longer beef or other phenomena: I want to do so just and want to do so.
And these two worlds are just sticking to each other, new and old thinking.
The exciting thing is that when one looks like this, this new society, this computer society, is reluctant to see very many mechanisms, principles, and archaic thinking patterns from tribal society.
But now not at the local level, but at the global level.
We understood that the weather is global.
The environmental issue is global.
Not if I think locally ecologically and your neighbor less ecologically, it doesn't work.
This means that the local village has actually become a global village with the same principles, as possible, but also total transparency.
Just as one knew in the village, who has what happens to and when, today, this is about enlargement of our own through these mobile devices at the global level.
If we know globally, we accumulate and grow faster and more rapidly.
Just as happened to the village.
Against the background, I was very busy watching it, meaning, what is it really for us, which is, of course, why have we looked for how long, but instinctively, what makes us difference?
Because people often come, they cannot use them to bypass everyone.
So it must be engaged in what is meant, not just changing it that it is different, but it is to be better.
And when, of course, something is intuitively, and how can I influence the shaping, and make things in accordingly that they are as intuitively, because they are fun and easy to use.
The study, too, is concerned with the perception and perception planning.
And that is, of course, what you start looking and looking like, and says, okay, now I just look into domestic itself.
And what does it really look like?
So how do we work if we look back there?
And, of course, what does it mean, intuitively, and how do our channels of perception and how do cognitive processing work?
Because Steve jobs has said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works.
So one must really look at the details when I want to make something benign or intuitively hands-on, meaning that at the heart.
And there is already a seven sense of our seven, most think we have only five, now they are even seven, there is certainly the next, eighth sense in the near future, and, as enlargement is again.
And watching how we process information, how do we take information?
To say, what is information?
Information is every difference that is a difference.
Many use the word, but don't know what it means.
But I must understand when, at the heart, when information will become information when information and information, in turn, so I know how to make things more intuitively or, of course, handable.
And, of course, how shape affects perceptions.
We see this when I strengthen things, then I can make it confusing, like the right, where I don't know what is salt and breath, or I can quite intuitively make it by making things.
So much of the natural one in a vessel, but I see it directly where salt and buffer is in
And when I say to someone, you give me salt or breath, you will consider what is in the right.
And, on the left, it is easy to intuitively, and then I hope that there is no sugar in there.
But our perception itself, as deceived it.
For example, this perception in the context.
The right circle looks larger than the small, even though it is not the case, they are just equal, and yet our perception is changing depending on what context we put things in.
Does someone know what this is?
Come on.
The pattern should work.
Since there, it will be more to my lens.
So it is a circle.
A second circle already starts to correlate or contend with some similarity.
And, once I stop a halval, we don't see only one unit, a circle, circle, and, but we see one unit, we don't see three parts, a circle, another.
What is called formidable law, or just strengthened psychology, which, in turn, affects us in
The key to the shaping, which, most of the first semester, have the best educated laws.
The past law is close, enhanced law of continuity, and so on.
Often in the third, forget.
But this is essential to make things more intuitively possible.
The next phenomenon, which is very interesting, is the future.
Once again sounds very banal, but it is more exciting if you start looking closer.
So we have the eyes ahead, and now think we are backsliding.
That is wrong.
They are beginning to see the backfront.
Indeed, they projure an assumption forward that they see what they recognize is an unprecedented circle.
That means that we projieze only before we see it back in the back of our seheo machine to say, okay.
I have your cognitive disconnect, you have what you want to see.
That is there, then, that is back again.
Then, 's going forward again, because the backwardness is not at the back of the front, and says, now don't really ask yourself and sure if what you see is what you want to see.
And then it is backsliding, and it is actually only seen.
So a very exciting process of how certain things happen, and what happens for sub-secondary issues.
I don't know who you know this picture.
As this happens, the same thing I described.
Now everyone is trying to recognize something.
I don't know who recognizes what.
Does someone see something?
A dalmatiner, exactly.
Once I saw that, there is a dalmatiner in the midst, they know that.
They will never forget, because I show them where dalmatiner is.
Now they see the dalmatiner.
And, now they see him.
That means that I have now deteriorated them that they do not see a pattern in the middle east, but I have conditioned it within the shorter-time time time time to see this dog in this worsened image.
And that is this projection of the foresight, feedback loops.
Now I know 'and now I am proposing that I see the dalmatiner.
I see the dalmatiner.
So, very exciting processes that then occur in this, yes, grey is not, but it is not exactly happening in this rosana mass.
Does someone know what three seconds are?
For long, yes.
That is our present.
So it is always interesting to know as a designer.
If I know something takes three seconds to speak out of the present on the past loop, I can just bridge very well wait times in which I work with someone with three seconds.
It must only process as the present.
Then it moves into the past, and thus I can bridge very elegant times for example, when I know this phenomenon.
What takes twenty milliseconds?
Yes, milliseconds.
A very exciting phenomenon.
That is the period in love.
This means respect if you know that now, look at whom you look like long, because I don't accept any guarantee that you can do accordingly.
And six milliseconds, including a very exciting phenomenon.
That is the period of most perceptions we have.
That means that this first impression is happening at a rapid pace of how we perceive things.
And, as we also see things about what we regard, and how to secure ourselves against our environment so that we can think accordingly.
Of course, the shaping is not only concerned with perceptions and neural revisions or cognitive sergonomia, but mainly with the issue of human purpose k-related relationship.
So, as a person is concerned with some things.
There are even productivity-language functions, such as formal aspects or formality aspects.
There are relevant functions where I know exactly where I need to intervene.
But there are also symbolic functions, why do anyone make such a small ticket, where little fits, so awful amounts of money, even though not so practical?
Because we are more on symbolic terms, at the level of government, which we are naturally engaged in shaping ourselves.
Back to my true natural user interface and the issue, which, of course, is usability.
Usability always means how to achieve a certain goal, or how can one users achieve as effectively in a specific use context, efficiently, and satisfactory.
This is what the norm says.
How can I make something possible?
If I can service this directly, or I need 'n handbook or I need your training.
And it is less usable or user.
I do not mean that it is better manageable.
This must be understood.
And when one looks at some of the software that we just saw, it will also understand why ninety% of today's software is little intuitively or not used to anmean, the i-pad in many areas or i-phone, although it is far more intuitive than classic software.
This is not only an intuitive device since apple has been a basic economic factor, most basic success, if I want to harness technological devices.
Why?
Because the rule of this new type of usefulness is that the natural user is ínfaces, for example, five times faster on average.
They must imagine that if they make something of the classical softy, they need five hours, and with this new type of natural software only an hour.
That is not to say that they are likely to go home four hours, but their employers or anyone will fall to how he preoccupied them with the four hours.
But I want to say that, of course, it is a better increase for us to achieve some things.
When we move back to software, the first line interfaces that were very abstract where it took months to deal with these systems.
Then, the next, who have already worked with a defining model or mental model such as the software ergonomen, would have a idea of something that is the metaphor to harness the computers.
So no longer zeroes and cryptic codes, but a metaphor.
This made it much easier to use, but it is, of course, much better.
The next generation of signaling users is already working much more with behavior.
So, as I become a shaping a lot more often the behavior than that look.
This is also a paradigm change.
Once I realize that this looks increasingly unimportant for success, the usability will become an app.
And if I continue to move further into this natural user, where I vote, by language, by touch, gesture, and no longer per capita mouse and the cursor, I am even more immediate and immediate.
But that leads me back to the point when will things become more intuitive?
If they become more intuitive, and then I must resign my small friend here and watch, which means precisely from view of cognitive sergonomie when is really something intuitively?
And that is always something intuitive for us when I think too little about it.
So he does not like to think, but it is disproportionate.
The less I ponder about it, the more intuitive it is.
And what does this mean for designer?
That means, when we look at that we can transmit existing models from one another, for example, the metaphor, I can use it as a shaping.
That means that I can just transfer human action model to software, thereby making the software essential user.
Of course, if the question is what is really the most intuitive acquiring us people, and now I have betrayed it.
This is the so-called benign model.
Using each of us and OSIT is an acute acronym, and is selectively informed, transactions are transmitted.
This makes everyone all the time, but it makes it unconsciously, and, in part, instinctively or instinctively.
The model is already being used in the wake of the meat and is interculturally, so it works in young and old, and it is used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is in place.
OSIT on itself will be about fifty to 70 times a thousand of us after activity, so in sleep, one found that it is less often punished than day.
I can now consider this mental model of action, selective, transferring transactions to an interaction system.
And by this kind of transfer, like the metaphor of the CD, but now no longer a metaphor of a physical objective, but a metaphor of negotiating a pattern, a handling principle.
And that is at a higher level of user refriendliness than the transmission of a classic metaphor, namely the cerebellum.
And, for example, when I am overhauling this now, I can look at what I consider as an oversight, identify as a choice, notifying where the trap is big to me, I can look at the details, and, yes, transactions, I can also send it somewhere or send someone or whoever or shop.
Then I can transmit that whole.
I try to do so with an example.
That is precisely all pie.
Moreover, I now interact with the object, with the object, can bounce back up again.
I wars throughout the view, can now filter, and can say, just show me all about chocolate.
And, once one interface, which is much more intuitive and much of natural.
Because I can seize things like the pieces, touchen, and they come to me is far from becoming more natural than hierarchically organized web sites or other mechanisms, to speak,
Imagination is more important knowledge, and, with this sentence, I also want to close a and again, including designers must think differently to come to new solutions, and, in this sense, I am right to keep their attention and please.
I want to help you at a very certain aspect of curiosity.
The first when you become great as baby is that you care about what you have, yes, and depending on whether your parents have allowed them to play more or less in the killing, the more, the more, so, their curiosity will become.
And curiosity is not about to learn.
That is why all who are here and curious, indeed, people who have a capacity that cannot learn.
I now focus on implementing virtually this entire environmental discussion, world demise, forty years of club-of-rome to quality.
And there is a key point.
And that depends on phosphorus.
Give pee a chance.
Each day, they give + about two grams of carbon emissions, and each day they must absorb two grams of phosphorus.
Otherwise, they cannot have teeth.
They cannot store energy.
They cannot have a bone.
We could only be slipping into the seas as a one-time loan.
Indeed, if we are not to absorb and create a breakup.
Amazingly, we are looking at something that is supposed to be taken for yourself, but not so.
For all talk about energy, but no one speaks about the phosphorus problem.
The phosphorus problem is much more critical.
We depend on two countries.
We have brought far more uranium into the environment for two years, and already being used in all nuclear installations.
In the last 20 years alone, ten thousand tons of uranium have been spread to our fields in Germany.
And that is what we take.
It makes leukemia in children.
And we think we would protect the environment if we are a bit less damaging.
So, for example, cut the environment, drive less cars.
Space makes the environment less waste.
Cutting the environment requires less energy.
But this is not an protection.
That is as if I say, cutting your child, it would hit just three times more than five times.
This is just a bit less destruction.
If we think so from the grave to bahr, our entire earth will sooner or later be a peaceful farm.
That is why we think about it.
And the most important thing is to watch the ground, first.
In the ground, more than 60% of carbon is stored.
At the moment, we build maize and lose between 11 and 30 kilograms of thirty tons per hectare, or on the square meter.
That means that we lose roughly five times more than newly formed.
We can, of course, see the waste problem.
And everything is packaging or content.
For example, in limbo, 20% of the waste is now wind.
And, because we are older, the wind will grow.
They are all in the run-up phase.
Yes?
A baby needs about six thousand out of wind.
Of course, we could reduce this by 10%, but what does this happen?
That is balanced in China at a second.
This is entirely irrelevant.
So the question is how do we deal with this wind?
Here, by the way, men are not pigs.
Let me tell you.
Because it is emitted by pigs on the fixed elements of executive elements.
People over the animal kingdom.
Yes.
So men cannot be pigs.
Because that is true, or?
Traditionally, we think in the environmental discussion, we are too many in the world.
And if you don't look to people if you say that it would be better, you don't warmer there, then they will become more sophisticated and hostile.
And, as someone like Al Gore says, one of our great heroes, there is nothing more important than to stabilize the human population.
In Israel, you say, when you save a life, you rescue the earth.
Here it says that the more you ask, the better.
Yes.
The first question is, are we really too many?
When one looks at the ants, the weight of the planet's ants, the ants outweigh about four times more than we humans.
I could also take termized, but no one in the us may be so far, even though it is vegetarian.
That means that the ants outweigh much more than we do.
And, because they are physically working much harder than we and because they live only three to six months, they are equivalent to their weight, in energy consumption, some thirty billion people.
That means that we are not too many, we are too smart, yes?
And, where they see how far we are from what we really wanted and could achieve, and how sad we are that we are on earth at all, can you see that, for example, an obvious program has a program, up to 20 40 40 40, is it neutral?
They can be only climate-neutral if they do not exist, yes?
The only chance.
Have you seen a climate-neutral tree?
Yes?
One?
That means that our entire intelligence means that we want to be trees, yes?
Yes?
No tree is carbon.
Fortunately not, yes?
There is no overpopulation problem in trees.
There are still six billion trees in amazonia alone.
Have they heard some of overpopulation problems from trees?
That means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be trees.
And where they see, even at something like Demeter, the most stringent bio- indeed, agriculture does not allow our own pathway products to decline.
Every year, we lose so three million tons of cyber emissions that really need to fall into circuits.
So we are too many.
That alone.
This means we feel so guilty of the earth that we say, there is no bio-land construction, not a biological lab, no natural news progrès, and, like all, which allow our own exkred to decline.
Is this not sad?
We are too many.
It makes sense to be less damaging than oil consumption.
But where are we useful?
We are trying to minimize our ecological footprint, but it is about having a big footprint that is useful.
We want to be good for society, we want to be good for the economy, but when it comes to the environment, is the highest, not there, yes?
Nullemissions, yes?
They can have only nullemissions if they are not there.
Even if you were to shoot now, you would have emissions.
So they cannot solve this.
We can.
We can regain our nutrients.
We make agriculture in where we regain nutrients from Brazil.
Directly, we can retaliate nutrients in agriculture in this way.
For example, we do so in China, where we are directly taking the abuses.
In China, a successor today means true killings, so, so, so?
And in our western world, we were always too stupid to bring our nutrients back.
This means that the entire western civilization-led history is that the city has always been taken, but never returned to farmers.
By doing so, cities had to grow more and more, because farmers went to cities, and cities have to get their nutrients away.
That is why all western empires are always expanding until they have no longer managed infrastructure, and then they are imploded.
Yes?
In China, it was different.
It has been unchanged civilization over five years, because it has always been able to bring nutrients back.
Even today, when they are invited to eat, China is expected to stay until they seek the lags.
Because it is unwelcome to go, and nutrients increase.
They have invited them to eat, not food theft.
That means that they can see the Internet how to regain nutrients.
That is, in fact, when you do so, agriculture creates biogas, a hectare of five thousand dollars in chile, so a farmer can generate about $thousands of dollars, waiting, grow hens, and pigs, and vegetables and fish.
And the great thing is that the crime rate is falling back by more than nty% in the yemen's portfolio.
So we need not control people as little as possible.
We can support them to be good.
That is, of course, high-tech agriculture, but the plants bear themselves.
The byproduct is clean water.
And they are designed by the design that a farmer can simply put it.
That means that crime rates go back.
And none of these plants, we have now grown more than fifty over the last 20 years, none of these plants has ever been abolished.
They could easily throw a liter of allethal, and then the plant would be ruined for years.
Don't happen.
That means that we need not control people as little as possible.
We can support them to be good.
That means that we need to retaliate globally.
And, by the way, when they want to do what they want, they are best suited in Germany, which is in France.
Unfortunately, not in obvious stream, but perhaps they can help France furters a bit.
After all, the frankfurter plant could best win the outcome of the United states.
And that must be back.
We see this a truly critical outcome.
And we see that it does.
We have now used us for three years in Holland.
The Dutch government has declared that they will be the first country around the world, which wins a result.
But we need that overall.
Understand, there are two countries that control nearly 70% of the world's phosphorus reserves.
As OPEC is a crowd of orphanages.
These are sixteen countries that control 40% of oil supplies.
And oil will replace other energy sources.
But the us will not replace it.
This is not about making the existing a bit less bad, but it is about making something right.
And, above all, to ask what is the right thing.
This is about effectiveness, not efficiency.
In Holland, of course, it is easier because the country is built on flowers.
Yes?
Imagine if, for example, her wife is sadder when she resented them, and she will get fifty rosen.
Fully inefficient.
But, at all, effective?
Or take a list pen.
A woman in Germany, for example, is eating three kilograms during her life.
Doing so.
This is not Scientifically accurate, because we do not know how much it leaves.
But a British pen, even in these lighting, can I tell them, is entirely inefficient, but at all effective, yes?
All that is nice in life is not efficient.
That is not resource efficiency, but effectiveness.
What is the right?
Not to burn the declaration even a bit better and shift it down, losing all the materials for circuits, but first to ask how to exclude circuits?
Imagine Mozart's efficient.
Yes?
If I invite them to dinner, and say, yes, there is a pills with offensive tastes and a glass of water.
Wonderful, 'box?
That is efficient.
All that is nice in life is not efficient.
If you fall in love, efficient?
Yes?
That means reducing everything that matters in life is not about saving to avoid.
The entire environmental discussion.
We say to people, oh, you don't have an environmental consciousness in the South.
No one that is just the right thing, yes?
One places where you throw away from, yes, you create life opportunities.
But the wrong things are.
When you throw the wrong things away, you have a waste problem.
As we think of north.
There is every footprint.
If they run, yes, each footprint is destroying the ground.
Because the ground is falling off, moody and the wind and water is weakened.
But if it is in Italy, each footprint means that water remains in a meadow.
So it is about creating a large footprint that will become a wetlands area.
Not debt management.
We say sustainability in Germany.
Yes?
But when I ask you, how do you like your wife?
What do you say?
Sustainable.
Then I say, heart pain, yes?
That is precisely the minimum.
So not saving, avoid saving.
Every waste is nutritious.
And it is a appetite for Italy to throw people out in the high arc of colacan from the car.
For they know that it is a lustful process.
It is the form of refourth behavior, yes?
They can show, I was there.
But with the right design, please.
For example, we have developed an egg packaging that is liquid in space temperature.
They can throw away where they go and stand.
In two hours, it is building up everywhere.
And it contains seeds from rare plants, helping to weaken biodiversity.
That means that we are useful, not less damaging.
So there are two circuits.
Not all is to be viable, of course.
A television or a washing machine that they use only that they don't consume.
Only the things that hide like shoe soles, such as the harassment, such as authoritarians, must be that they go into biological systems.
The things that are only used are in technical systems.
But we are talking about biological systems today.
Yes?
For example, the sneakers, yes?
Direct advertising, not for Puma per se for the company, but to help this company succeed.
For we do not make things free.
Yes?
So, if I invite them to food and say that it is free of coherence, they do not help them.
No, we point out what is in.
Positive.
So not as detox.
Not toxic in the house.
But everything that is in here is useful.
These are the first shoes that you can put the kavalierstart on the footing, and the gum can go into biological circuits?
All of this is compatible.
And, of course, if we manage to Adidas, for smart, Mauritz, and the entire garment industry.
And that is half of all wastewater problems worldwide caused by the textile industry.
That is why they are helping people ask.
Lee, Puma, is you really serious?
Because they have changed the CEO twice.
And I am not so sure whether they really remain.
So they help me a bit.
But it is about it.
Yes.
What was just portrayed.
This is happening.
We can now make things so that if you mask, if you fail, you can walk into biological circuits.
Technical circuits are the same.
There is a direct renament system.
This is the first environmental backdrop, indeed, made for it to go back into the cycle.
So everyone can get things back.
If they come, yes?
Remember the windel again?
If the waste is now.
All of this wind is close.
In countries where people get money.
With depoia ahead, but else in the landscape, yes?
If we change plastics, so that it can go to biological systems if we change the aquifers' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' 'water, they can plant fifty trees with a baby in Israel or Tunisia.
Yes?
If they take these winds alone, sterilize them, taking the powder to plant trees.
This makes the baby a positive carbon for the entire life, from the beginning.
So we don't need a neutral neutral neutral; we can be climate-positive.
It is a pobeneficial print.
Yes, so.
Yes?
We can do that.
We can reinvent everything again.
I created an institution.
Many people now work there, and they can all engage.
There is extra one club, cradto-cradle-club, where everyone can join.
So no longer saving, avoid reducing, not debt management, but smart waste.
Does it power this curious?
Thank you.
The work of the interprets
Music as language.
In the description of my speech, I understand that as interpreter, I understand myself as an interpreter, in English sense.
Interprets are translation of the mandatory notes in soaring music.
That one must understand the deeper sense of the words and wortzusammenhang, not just a word to say the text in another language, but also the deeper sense of the words and wortzusammenhang, so that it makes meaningful translation, everyone who has to do with foreign languages.
Even as germans translate into English, more knowledge can require when it comes to terms or even about poetry.
But it is alien to laia what we do with our music language.
When interpretations of a music unit, I first have only the written notes.
They certainly think that the fabricated to the marks is exactly what he suspected.
In reality, the marks are very vague and unexactly.
These notes are roughly the same or unexactly, as a combined, albeit very seemingly counterable, description of a landscape.
For, in this composite description, the duft of the flowers is not smandered, the degree of the founding is only to understand the slaughter of the winder is not feeling
That means that the interpret must translate this unaccurate information to another, namely, hearable, non-verbal music language.
Today, I want to tell you what I do otherwise: interpretations, once again, translate into a verbal language.
So, virtually a translation of translation
That is why I prefer to do the whole in German, because if I had to translate into English again, I would be equivalent to translation in translation.
So the music works as much as the spoken language for me.
The marks took the role of the letters of a rule
So it is not enough to learn only notes and push down the brink on the brink or the right place on a violate.
That would be just the letter learned to paint.
The sense of the letter is only when one can address the language.
Consequently, music's learning process requires at least as long as for the spoken language.
While there are also abuses to learn for the hauses, only passively understands, or you can also actively speak to the same as the physical language.
The reading work begins similarly like a Theater director.
After first, having chosen a piece of play, because you are enthusiastic about it, you do research for reasons for the commission's emergence.
Information is collected about the play in secondary literature.
You read in the letters, you listen, notes, or whether there are words to think of the victims themselves.
You study the works he has composed before and after.
Compare them.
The motivations to write it.
How and what did he feel?
How were his lifetimes, how society and politics?
All interests me.
Consider this time, for example, by reading contemporary images or literature.
But over time, it is already a wealthy knowledge of the victims that you play, and it is always easier to think and feel inside it.
It is increasingly a friend with which one lives together.
His concerns to write the play will become increasingly and more to my personal concerns.
Because the notes is far from a record of the author's personality, but only a framework that I turn to the framework to fill it with meaning and meaning.
I say, with my own words, what might be written between this framework.
I am talking about what these tones might mean.
Now for me and for the victims then, and what they could now mean for him.
Every tone, every phrase gets a sense, because I feel it, because it will jump from my personally.
It must be unanimous for me, or now I cannot convince my audience that my concern is.
It is always a very hasty concert if I have the experience, the piece that I have worked in advance for as long as I resee.
As one hopes of a new day and again, though always with the same ritual of life, stand up to breakfast, work, I also do the same time again.
I have become a day older, changing seasons, my heart is slower than on the morning, in a concertroom for more time that eyeball comes back than at home.
I realize the audience, consciously, or unconsciously.
All of this affects me and all of this also influences my experience with the commission.
Wonderful, even if I stand with a duo-partner on the stage, we have the same wavelength.
Then the same thing happens in a good conversation.
One brings a new idea into it, and the same will be answered with a response.
It is exciting, because things that we have not so proven, and what we cannot samples.
It is great fun to make music in this way, and they have seen as the audience how the music communicates alive.
Each concert is another concert.
I will never play as it is now.
I cannot play as much as in twenty years today.
Because I will have more life experience than it is today, so I will have much more nuanced checks, emotions, and sentiments than today.
To be sure, I will have thrown some clothes, too, but get new ones.
Had a nice example of this.
It was on a beijing kurds for music students at my favorite old teacher, professor Jürgen fines, a well-known Beethoven's founder, concerted senator and longstanding professor of music here in Stuttgart.
Unfortunately, I was much too young, so he was already emerized when I finally started studying.
But I had the great fortune to meet him very early, with three years, and I was at my school time.
I was seventh when I participated in one of his prices once again, playing the last of the admission of the kim Laden's four ballot.
He asked me what the ballot was headed for me.
That is part of a tradable share.
And, in my youth, I said, I was
With sdgs, he said, so?
That must be the difference.
For me, it means memory.
He was over sixty.
Well, as seventeenth, they have dreams, but no significant memories.
Today, I play the piece every few years and has changed it for me, though no one note has changed.
Every time, I read something new.
One example of another area. Monet has painted the seerosen x times.
The same garden is always the same garden, but at different times, in different light.
He translated the seerodes, as he saw it, as it did at this moment.
His personal impressidelines.
The malicious interpretation of a unit is comparable.
Now I am also older than the kim drug, with two decades when he wrote the piece.
Indeed, he lived only nine-thirty years.
And it is important for me to look back into the notes, even if I mean that I have grasped them.
To keep a difference, directly with the novelist.
For the marks are the only connection to him.
Above all, when he died.
Now, how do you begin to speak to the language of music?
I said, you need roughly as long as for the spoken language.
Often, music learning is so that you only learn the notes.
You learn virtually first to read that before you speak only a word.
One learns to find the tone on the instrument.
If all fingers are moving in time and right as it stands in the notes, the ones that sound like music together.
If that is flawed, the students will get the closest game.
Little talk about interpretation is initially spoken.
Well, there is presto on the front, which is a quick slice.
Lento, slowly.
According to and policy signs, F, and B, etc.
Most are familiar.
But, even if they are implemented, it remains just something technical.
And it is still no interpretation.
I am puzzling.
I wonder that one often gets something very basic.
That is that, in order to make music on the instrument that should do human beings and feel previously present.
That is the sing.
A child that has not learned because parents have not made it, it will not do it by
That is like giving lessons.
It is necessary to have its own experiences and idea of music to bring it about another possibility, such as an instrument to sound.
So people who have never enacted have never felt immediately with their own bodies, as it is to form a tone.
Making a phrase with its own breath.
The recording instrument is the enlargement of our body.
Our mood to sing, our hands, and feet to dance.
For example, hammerheads in the brink are the continuation of my finger.
The tune comes from the healthy and the rhythm from dance.
Ongoing reporting nowadays is not conducive to music.
You don't need to make music even if it becomes boring.
Not more necessary to sing or sing a song.
Each of its own music is platform when it is suddenly hit by outside music.
To be sure, there are some of them who say, yes, but what can you do if I don't sing them?
The question I can't sing, because they believe that they cannot sing?
Or B, because they have not learned to sing?
At both, it is not too late to start to figure out whether they cannot or learn how to use these small muscles that hire the ballots.
This can be training.
Or C, because they have agreed that they are unfeasible.
As I wonder how skilled was this diagnosis?
Have you already paid a second-- or third opinion, as you say nowadays?
Or D, they may not have music, so they want to have nix to do so.
But what I would regret because music is a brave communication cause.
But it may be true.
Well, so they see all cases, no one must be a reckless candidate.
But don't please, I don't understand the classical music.
I cannot say whether it is good or bad.
Because I reply, but they can say whether they like or not.
For I don't think someone, I don't know whether I know it because I cannot cook.
So they do not stop eating, only because they cannot cook.
So they don't have to stop classical music because they don't play an instrument.
Listen to it and say whether it is good or not.
Whether the music is too chilling or too sweet.
Say what they feel.
Over time, they also get claims, and they want to have some spices there, or even taste nice differences.
Why do I now urge my audience to listen actively?
Because the music is a language, and one language is to communicate.
A piece of art you never look at has no effect.
Food that was bogged up by a lawful or a koch must be consumed, not just watched or exchanged recipes.
So you please hear when a music is played.
It is not just a fun paper game game.
If an environment where adults are active to play music, or at least actively hear music, a child is growing, it is easy to ask a music teacher, what color has your flower?
Can you play it in blue now?
And the child plays a resumption, rather than a red passe now a blue flower.
And this sounds very different than before.
That was then the first-ever piece of a separate balance sheet.
So the first step toward interpretation.
And what happens if one plays a piece today, originally a hundred, or even three centuries ago?
Now the tools have continued.
There was no strike at the time of bachs.
It was simply not invented.
I think that the stream would have been enthusiastic about having had today's sound possibilities.
I can now bring the tone that the stream to the modern wing, which a barocki cembalo cannot.
Beethoven also knows that he heard more than he had become unattended.
Today, a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected as no game.
As a result, the victims rely on us interprets that reinforce the pieces.
To ensure that they will be hearted, which they are only in the spirit.
And what they would think in the spirit today.
Or what I prefer today, because what they might have thought.
Thank you.
Do you know what neid is?
Were they homegrown?
And how did this feel?
Bathing.
I have a friend driving a Passerati.
If I come, with my small v piesel and me, that sense comes out.
I overshoot something.
I say, Ulf, what do you say?
That is even half of its value in the first year.
And, at all, you work much less than I am.
Why do I have to afford a small car?
And then I think immediately that is unjust.
It is against justice.
And, as I say the word justice, this awkward sense is away.
Our organism invented a great way to make such unpleasant feelings like neid simply disappear.
They can also try this with words like revenge or earnings.
I want to explain something or close to this mechanism today, which is probably familiar with them.
The mechanism comes from lie.
But don't think of the lie they may have heard when people say that no one has the intention of building a wall.
And then stones turmoil so that he is hiding them.
On such a lie, they see that the litter does not believe what he says.
It is easy to test that it makes sense very different.
He is deceiving them, not himself.
No, the lie I am talking about, which has to do so that they deceive themselves.
They need this lie to sustain a living lie.
They can put them less easily, yes, and downfall.
They need time.
Of this time, an anecdotal one they may know.
The Spanish padelo Picasso once portrayed a woman.
That woman then complained that the portrait would not like it.
Picasso's response is to wait.
They will always be similar.
Here, and when you laugh, you see how important this lie is and how much time you need to learn what artists can tell us.
For artists have a dysfunctional relationship with lie.
The artist tells them something, and, above all, this lady, what it does not see if it is just in the mirror.
The artist tells them something to be familiar with such a portrait, so it is only when they watch this piece of work.
Then that unpleasant feeling disappears, it may not like them, and it will always like them.
Here, they have this mechanism that we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our livelihoods.
And not only in the art, including in popular markets, in which mythology, is resurgent.
You might know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him who is the most beautiful thing throughout the country?
One day, this mirror says, yes, there is a more beautiful one.
Behind the seven mountains, so on.
And they also know how much hostility from this true outcome, including the mirror cannot lie out of this true outcome.
But we should simply trust ourselves that a woman cannot say that there is a fairer somewhere else.
Here it is needed to understand what we understand under politically correctness.
We need this lie that we maintain the delusion without which we cannot continue to live.
We have such great lies not only in the art of people's sentiment, but also in science.
And there is this story of the woman of the bishop of worryings.
It heard of this book by Charles Darwin, the emergence of species and Descent of people.
Humans should come from the apes and, yes, there are at least a common ancestors between humans and apes.
And then they renwarned them to her man, saying that is not true, what Charles da wrote.
Humans should come from the apes or have a common ancestors.
No, no, it does not.
And if it is true, we must prevent people from gaining knowledge.
Why do we need to prevent people from gaining something when it is true?
Because we cannot live without this lie.
Because we are this self-delusion, this sense of being great, Descent of the highest nature, not of such a nature, something that is predictably unpredictable like an organism that still exists to make a stone comparable and otherwise what it is for us untenable.
So we cannot do so.
We must prevent people from gaining knowledge of things, especially when they are true.
For them to see how slowly this mechanism is resolved, and what the traces he leaves on something different than the great picture of us itself, I want to close another story.
A particularly brave story I mean.
My wife told me.
She came one day from school, she is a teacher, and she was told by a student.
An autistic student.
It may be particularly happy to him because he has a penchant for sincerity.
And she asked him what are your hobbys?
And, as he says, well, I am at the fire.
And, because I am at the fire department, I am interested in pyrotechnical things.
Yes, they feel when they are home, something is wrong.
I said to my wife, always when a person in a moral justification, because using it, we should try to replace it with the scene.
If they make it, and then they learn the sentence.
Although I am in the fire department, I am interested in pyrotechnical things.
They feel that the truth is behind the outcome.
For example, a small bub who does not care for firefighters.
The interests of the firestorm.
But there is no one that we can look around where you learn how to power.
There is only the second-best to fire.
It has been reported.
And, too, it doesn't tell his teacher that you like to throw fires somewhere and delighted when the fire slows after.
No, it simply looks much better if we show that we are responsible for eliminating the dangers that others can only create when they lay fire.
Here they have this small mechanism.
This evidence suggests that, at the heart of the bub, he knew that he was actually related to fire, but that he cannot say it.
Here, they have this sor between the unconscious and unconscious who will move immediately without them to do something about it, and the things they know that they look quite different, so that they can sound much better for them and others.
As a result, such words that we also use in the language of politically correct promises.
In fact, we know that something else is the case.
But we know when we speak that, social relations are very sensitive.
We cannot simply do that.
It is impossible to present such things in a society that is supposed to work
I want to show you what we found in my institute.
According to the logic of this delusion, the willingness to spread another reality than the one we really know that it is irrelevant to the outside.
I want to present two, perhaps three examples.
The first example assumes what many of them know, and some of them do not require very few at all.
I mean the soul.
What is the soul?
The soul is something intellectual, say, Leibniz.
It is something not about stopping material nature.
And if they have people who have the firm conviction that they own a soul, or they can also say that they have been fueled by the soul of life, they are roughly as if the soul were so sacred about what they are not matter.
And, by this soul, they now think that they are somehow present in this wolkigen nature, in this air, anima means in Latin American, airspace.
And if that airspace is extended to people, it will be filled with spirit, with nature that can only live, indeed with soul.
And then he can run away.
That is the idea of how the soul affects.
So it is to come from outside to people.
So we should see them as something that is vital to our lives.
And if they have this requirement, they understand the logic that we experience this happiness can improve our world through a lie.
For now they can use a three-pronged paper.
They still know from school.
This is now a three-pronged logic that describes us.
That is, by the way, the hardest part in
Here, they need some logic, but willingness to lie.
To be sure, they can simply misuse this logic.
Three rates come to this three-pronged rate.
The first sentence is that Klaus claims, there is no soul.
The second rate is that if Klaus is right, he has no soul.
Now there is a third sentence.
I highlighted him.
A third sentence that emerges immediately with people who have a strong sense of a soul.
The say who does not have a soul that is dead, and cannot claim nothing.
Here they are already feeling.
This logic reflects this, yes, in this disappointing speech.
They see it immediately.
The first two rates, which make sense correct.
I can say everything.
The logic does not talk about reality.
I can say that Chancellor is a man.
And if I are right, the Chancellor is a man.
If I are not right, the Chancellor is not a man.
The logic does not tell what is true.
I can say everything.
But, if I have right, it is true.
So, when Klaus says, there is no soul.
Second, if he is right, he has no soul.
These things are logical.
And now our disappointing awareness is right now that it can do something.
It depends on a third rate that has nothing to do with the first two sentences, and it does so as if the opposite of the first day was already proven and provided.
For, in fact, we need to prove whether there is or not the soul.
But, with this logic that simply uses two things to make sense correct, and one another that looks like it would have something to do so so that we can save our
So we pretend that it would be impossible to live without a soul.
And we are very happy about it.
We can continue these examples.
In the present, for example, we have a very modern example that will always be filled with daily newspapers.
To this end, they must present another philosophical issue, a permanent one from philosophy.
That has to do so that we fall into the fourteenth century.
There was a scholar named johannes buridanus and after that is the buridanese esel.
The buridanese esel is an esel that consists of pure nature.
The soul has not.
That is a natural thing.
And if they place the very same hypocrisy port between two equals, they were starved.
For he does not know what this year is to go first.
So it is in the midst.
That is how natural things are taken.
Likewise, large forces with countervailing signs are addressing each other.
There is nothing at all.
Only if you put another example, so if you immediately make a huge supply of hypocrisy, it also does not need reason and nothing.
If it comes to the right thinking.
So, if they have this idea that it is somehow driven in nature, determining the larger crowd that attract one immediately, they also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will.
And, if we are already in Frankfurt, I remember the max-planning institute for brain research.
There is a scholar that says Wolf, and he sometimes says Wolf singer, there is no welcome freedom.
Now we can restore the second sentence and say that if Wolf is right, he does not have a welcome freedom.
These rates are absolutely logical and correct.
And what we can now read in the newspaper almost daily, which they find in this third sentence.
This, for example, looks like who does not have a welcome freedom, cannot be held accountable for his actions and claims, and it is therefore unwilling.
Here, too, they have again.
In fact, one would have to demonstrate whether there is something like welcome freedom.
But the logic of deception allows us to do so as if the first sentence of the first was wrong than it would have to take for granted the opposite without proof.
And now you can simply want to make anything if you want to test yourself anything, and, above all, if you want to make people happy, you can exercise that courage to lie.
For example, when you meet a person you can say, there is no precedent.
Please, you don't use the German word for predicament, meaning Prophet.
They cannot call it, which would be a bit politically incorrect.
Say, there is no predicament.
Immediately, they will experience one for which there is, of course, that can't prove.
And they already have a problem.
For, while they are busy making it clear that they cannot prove that there is no predicament, the man is very happy.
He is very happy about it, because he has deceived it.
Because it has led them on a red red that he does not stop himself.
For, in fact, this person is not interested in evidence.
He is only interested in maintaining itself against the need to prove that there are more precedent.
So, in the kind of shift in the burden of evidence, they see the greatest lie.
And, once again, they have a way to feel that three sentence in other people, they do it, because they will make others happy when they do not remember their own lie.
I thank you for your attention.
Yes, good day.
I have allowed my Lilly to ask whether I should mention them.
It is one of the organizers of this great event, and asked me whether I wanted a lecture and let my idea price.
I have to say frankly, you got it, I was initially hard to talk about my idea.
And I may imagine my island project that I try to imagine you.
But it is, of course, the sum of many ideas.
I am probably a member of the two nice girls are still there, I am likely to be a generation that has spurred for this bad oil image, because I believe that nineteenth-70 centuries of engineering building in karlcalm, technical college, now she means that I believe.
And I got it in the mid-1980's to Berlin, because I wanted to make renewable energy and there was no quiet.
There was the nuclear research plant of leopoli.
That would mean all KFA, too, say KFA.
Today, the hot project carriers.
Because a good engineer has either built or used nuclear power plants.
But something like 'n solar pendulum, from which a hundred watts comes out of the square meter, which was a toy.
And in Berlin, there was a war of engineering.
I am grateful to the prime minister kola-man that he rerehabilitated the word again, because after the macro case, the word was no longer used, because everything left was bad.
But this was not so in the 1960's.
Because it was just that there were self-administered alternatives, and one of them was just in crushing in the run-up in the run-up, where the evil suspected.
In the place of the terrorist, but that was known as wuselic electronics and made wind and solar power, and I started in mid-1980's.
And, yes, much of what was said today has been touched by many brave statements that I have lived through.
I have worked 11 years in collective, which was fundamentally democratic.
We were 20 people.
If one said no, it was the crony zip, which has fueled a wholly shattered, for a decade, I have had little talk about whether I have made my good college of engineering a really flawed cause, because all my father's colleagues have always told him that you had the window of money to leave your child.
It deals with vulnerabilities.
And that was really very, very dire, and it is also in such a period where I met a picture where I asked after ten years, a thousand mark was still, the basic wage, of course, a single wage in collection, of course, whether that really should be great.
And I have kept it up to six decades, and then we, together with friends, have become a co-founder of the company Solon, which, together with the spin Q-Cells, became one of the world's largest cell manufacturers.
A huge outcome, but there is, of course, the problem of a growing company, and then we have thousands of thousands, a small group decided that we start small and start again and devote us to the next topic of the future, saying, and that it is, again, crazy, beginning to store people.
And, since I have brought you a project I want to imagine now.
And the title of the presidency was, indeed, like a hundred% renewables.
And we simply have started with a relatively simplistic crazy story, where one might make sense today.
On this island, it is Graciosa on Azores.
Yes, that is the data.
There are four and a thousand people living.
Today, they have a renewable energy share of 15%.
And the question is why have they no longer?
That is simply technological.
When they build more wind power each other, the system begins to fail.
I also tell politicians when they were persecured in Berlin-Adlershof our collateralization.
The say, why?
We have 20% in Germany.
There is no problem.
But if not, we have seven% in Europe, and our network is physically the European body.
If we were 20% in Europe, we would have the same problems that people have on this island.
The question was simple, expected to be two-thousand in 2006, with the first contacts beginning with the island, but just before.
As big as it would have to be a battery so that an island is up to 20, thirty, fifty, perhaps even 70% of renewables.
And, yes, I continue to slide.
The conventional system looks like the world everywhere.
By the way, some hundred gigawatts of electricity on diesel base per year.
This is the equivalent of a hundred nuclear power plants, because it is particularly fast everywhere.
The world's energy hunger is deleted with this el because it needs no approval.
This is fast.
There is a box.
And then it usually looks like this.
There are always three of this,
Yes, this is the burden.
We also have very accurate data.
And the wind power plant or the solar plant or whatever it is, is typically a back-up system, and a system that can feed only in small quantities here.
Our goal was simple to say, okay.
This el will be back-up and the wind, solar will use the burden so that they can abolish the larger share.
And if you want to go beyond 20, thirty% of renewables, energy per year, not the performance moment, you must eliminate this el.
That means, at the moment, they must ensure that renewable energy can, in a way, take the entire net.
They can, of course, only if they were managed in some way.
No one has done that in the world.
There is a small style, so they can also play their razor on a small exchange judge.
People always ask me what does they actually do in Adlershof?
That is already happening.
But if they want to unite several of these exchanges and build a net, it will be extremely complicated.
And our goal was that we wanted to come to 70% of renewables, and then that rest remains, the last ten, 20% renewable, which will be very expensive, and it will not work to make the power of batteries.
That will, in any case, be an energy source that then knows hydrogen, methane, power to gas, or it will be.
They must then go to a seasonal age and offset winter summer, not just tag-night.
We simply wanted to know what is, because with a normal electric chemical battery.
How far is there?
And then have done a lot of simulations.
And the wind and sun have overcome the burden, and came to the result, a very exciting outcome that it needs 40-cent binding to the conventional system that requires roughly €50 / kilowatt-hour after twenty years.
These were the first calculations six years ago.
And then we said, okay.
If so, we have a business model.
We are cheaper than the diesel system when the diesel price rises five% per year.
And then we started negotiating with the landowners.
What would it have to be done?
If investors were negotiated, I found new associations.
We were only five people then to rebuild a society.
Here, again, the narrative.
The brown is the conventional system, which is our system.
The fact that our system has a price rise is that we make even 20% with this el, and that it does not boost the other causes.
And the power utility that means the electrification company on the island has meant that we find it very good.
If we want to support, but we do not believe that you can solve the technical problem.
And that is why we have decided to build a hall in Berlin, in which we can, to speak, form the island's electrification of one to three.
That means that we have sought to find the world's largest battery.
Here it is.
This comes naturally from Asia, in Japan's trap.
And, in the 1970's, she was developed in the BBC, now ABB, and was licensed to the Japanese.
It is a very large battery to see.
It has a megawatts of achievement, and can bring this performance for six hours, and that is the battery we have had to speak up with a sizeable binge.
And they then set up.
We also have one of these diesel's aggregate size in the same size that it faces, in the hall, to make sure that the entire dynamic behavior of this grid, so in the Theater, it now looks like that the el is at the back, here is the big battery that we can simulate the grid.
Over then, we simulate the entire transmission system, miles of physics in order to form the net affordable behavior.
Here we can see the whole thing again.
We can also shut down two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics.
Here we see this again, again, this el, again, the entire, individual aggregate.
And what we have done since two thousands of nine was the erection until today, two thousand 12, all we have done here between the individual system of electronics to software.
So we are not a battery manufacturer, but we define ourselves as a company that stands only between the battery and the subject, and everything in between.
One must, of course, be able to communicate to the grid, and that is very complicated.
The nice issue is that, in essence, all of this island can take advantage of the problems we will get if we are to increase our share of renewables.
So this whole discussion of how to move in the moment, energy transition, as to go, we have the island, for example, five% of excess energy, so we are struggling to defy the wind and the sun.
Natural light offers smart grid.
So smart grid, a huge issue everywhere.
We can start to integrate electric mobility, rumbyissues, because they can manage the burden.
That means that if you are 70% renewable, you will not be able to do so without aquifers.
You can do with 'n smart-grid, you can go through construction of the grids, yes, which should be done, the share of the share, but you will never be able to
And that is so little the message.
That is why many people, and look at this, precisely because they can see what problems you get.
If we shut down this el, it is no longer this rotating mass that causes certain inertia in the grid.
And our European intergovernmental network is, in fact, excluding the masses of big power plants, where the tide is all about Europe.
We look in this grid, the half-arrow, and when the ninety comedy nine can be opened, we will get a few fans, then we get a little bit of merh vapor, then we get up again.
That is the system.
And, of course, this is incredibly applications.
If they pull it down somewhere, there is some time.
The reserve has at least ten seconds to keep the net stable.
And in time, they can respond again.
If they have no longer, these rotating mass, they must replace the standard electronics electronics and electric chemistry.
And we can pull down the big battery two milliseconds once again.
There is already an enormous speed opportunity.
And the message is now that we must forego this rotating masses if we are to speak up with our goals 20%, twenty, thirty, thirty%, and so on if we are to achieve it at all.
Then we must reduce our must-run capacity in the grid.
Must-run simply means that the power plant is running to keep the frequency.
Yes, this is a huge debate at the moment, where coal plants are built, because we do not otherwise, or gastura, because it does not.
And we simply try to realize that the capacity to reduce the must-run capacity by putting electric chemical stores into the grid.
Fortunately, there are plenty of studies now.
And, to that end, people always come and look at our experimental level, almost our
And, yes, the debate is always about the question of how far can you take a long future.
And many discussions I had over the last six years were similar to the discussion I had over the last 30 years on photovoltaics.
If not, child maneuver, we expect everything, we never expect.
We have thirty gigawatts of photovoltaics in Germany today.
This is premature.
And I simply expect the same capacity to store electric chemical plants around the world over the next thirty years.
Simply, it will happen.
There will be plenty of refuge and disputes.
The brave thing is that I have seen in the last two years that the scientists face my side.
We have now received more than ten million promoters, including the €10 megawatt-battery to the German grid.
That will happen next April.
So it is also noting that there is a change, and only from this defensive position to yes, the idea that a hundred% renewable is true.
And if you have a hundred% renewable, that is like an autarke system.
So far, discussions have always been tried, these landers, which make autark, who have a small grid that has nothing to do with our fade.
The question is simple if they are fully independent of all fossil fuels or urans'energy sources that are pushed down somewhere in the world and pushed them, then they are an island.
Then they use only what is in the sun and wind where they live.
And that is a little vision of our vision of acquiring energy, and I am cradle-to-cradle to cradle that they have said they have used solar energy.
And that is what we do, and, as it comes, prime minister kola's talk should be a collective and use of solar energy, a little bit together.
And, yes, I simply want to encourage you, in the sense that you can be a bit quiet and have a vision.
And one really needs to remain quite tough, but I think it is happening.
Thank you.
When Steve Lopez, colomnis the Los Angeles times, one day when the streets at the center of Los Angeles, he heard a wonderful music.
She came from a man, an African-American, sympathically, rau, homeless who played on a ghost that had only two shia.
Many of them will know the story, because steves was later a book that was filmt, with Robert Downey junior Lopez and Jamie oliver, was ended as mckayers, the contrabors who was the juilliquid conservation scholar, and his promising career.
Tiers left Juilliard, suffered a nerve collapse and 30 years later, he lived as homeless on the streets of scid row at the heart of Los Angeles.
I recommend all of you to read the steves book or watch the film so that you understand not only the wonderful interconnectedness born between these two men, but also how the music created and, after all, the instrument was allowed to help the word, the alf's wars of the road.
I met mr Ayers in 2008, two years ago, in the Walt Disney concert.
He had just heard a show of Beethoven's first and fourth sinconia, and came behind the stage to imagine me.
He spoke in a much more thorny and divided tone about the record of fanfare, and Hillary Clinton, and how Dodgers would never create the baseball world series, and all of this for the formidable passage of the first ghost in the last sentence of Beethoven's fourth story.
We came to talk about music, and a few days later, I got an email in which I was interested in bolivia.
I still have to mention that bolivia rejected medical treatment, because he had already been treated with electric shocks and thorazin and handling, a trauma that has pursued his entire life.
As a result, he is particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic periods, which are sometimes so bad, and he managed to move around the streets of scid row, always exposed to the horrors and torture of his own spirit.
And, just as an attractive stage, bolivia came to mind, when we began with our first teaching to Disney concert, he had lost this mismatch in his eyes and looked completely.
He spoke about invisible demons and smoke, and how someone wanted to poison him in sleep.
I was afraid not opinion for it, but I was afraid that I could lose him that he could fall into one of his conditions, and that I could destroy his relationship with the spirit when I started talking about tone and arpegios and other exciting forms of pedagger.
So I just started playing.
I played the first sentence of Beethoven's violconcert.
And, while I played, I noticed that Nathaniel's eyes had a perfect change.
It was as if he stood under the influence of an invisible doctor nei, an chemical response that catalyzed my game.
Nathaniel manic anger turned into understanding that calm curiosity and courage.
And, as a surprise, he took his hostage and began to play some cuts in violations, and then asked me to end it: mensson, tschaikovski, Sibelius.
We began to speak about music, beginning by influx of Beethoven, Brahms, Bruckner, and all the others, from Bartók to esa pekka salons.
And I became clear that he possessed not only a fictional knowledge of music, but also a close personal relationship with it.
He spoke of her with a passion and understanding that I otherwise know only about my colleagues in the philharmony of Los Angeles.
By playing music and talking about music, this paranoid man who was just carrying out the streets of Los Angeles, a desirable, educated, distinguished, signatory musician in juard trained English.
Music is medicine. Music is changing us.
For bolivia, music is eligible health.
For the music allows him to reshape its thinking and delusions with the imagination and creativity.
So he is fleeing his torate conditions.
I understood that this is the nature of art.
That is precisely why we make music: so we are something deeply embedded in all of us, our emotions, through our artistic lens, can shape our creativity.
And the reality of that pressure reaches us all, and is inspired, and United us.
What bolianwent, the music returned to a community of friends.
The coming power of the music brought him back into a family of raw materials who understood him and ached his talent.
And I will always talk with bolivia, whether in the Walt Disney concert or scid row, because I remember why I have become a musician.
Thank you.
Berkeley Giussani: thank you.
Journalism
Robert taylor – I want to play something I was unshamefully stolen cellists.
I hope you pardon.
So I have canceled many fish in my life.
I have only two loved.
This first, which was more like a passionate affair.
It was a beautiful, tasty, good consistency, feared, a feast on the menu.
What a fish is.
Even better, he was created in aquaculture after the supposedly highest standards of sustainability.
So you might feel to sell it.
I had a relationship with this beauty for several months.
One day, the head of the company called on, asking if I offer an event about the farm sustainability.
"Of course," I said.
Here was a company that tried to solve what this unimaginable problem for our meals has become. How do we keep seafood on our menu?
Over the last 50 years, we have fished the oceans as we kahl forests.
It is hard to overestimate the destruction.
90% of the big fish we love, the tuna, the salaries, heavy fish, have collapsed.
There is almost nothing left.
So it will be a part of our future.
Many arguments, by contrast, polling the environment, most of them, and they are inefficient, we take tuna.
He has a feed depreciation of 15 to one.
That means that 15 pounds are needed to get a pound of entry.
Not very sustainable.
It is not good.
So here was finally a firm trying to make it right.
I wanted to support them.
On the day before the event, I called the head of the public-relations task for the firm.
Call him don.
"Don" Said, "Only to have the facts right, you are famous to build so far out in the sea that you are not polluting the environment."
"That is true, he said," We are so far out that the waste is distributed from our fish is not concentrated. "
And then he added, "We are essentially a world of its own.
This feed depreciation of 2.5 to 1, he said.
"The best in the industry."
2.5.
"2.5 to one? What does you get?"
"Sustainable proteins" Said.
"Great," I said.
This evening, I was lying in bed and thought, what about hell is a sustainable protein?
So, the next day, I briefly called for the event, don.
I said, "Don, what are sustainable proteins?"
He said he didn't know that. He would ask.
Now, I telephone with a few people in the company; no one could answer me an orderly answer until I finally telephoned with the senior biologists.
Call it don.
"Don" Said, "What are sustainable proteins?"
Now he mentioned some seaweed and some fish, and then he said that he had some chickens.
I said, "Hens' pellets?"
He said, "Yes, cushions, bone flour, remnants, dried up, and processed food."
I said, "How much% of expensive food is chicken?"
Perhaps two% believe.
"Now that is about 30%," He said.
I said, "Don, what is sustainable to channel chicken?"
There was a long pause in the leadership, and he said, "There is simply too much chicken in the world."
I loved this fish.
No, not because I am a self-righteous genius and vich.
I am even that.
No, I actually loved this fish, because I gay god who has attracted fish after this conversation.
This second fish, which is another kind of love story.
It is the romantic type that you know the better you know about fish is all the more like the fish.
I first consumed it in a restaurant in southern Spain.
A friendly journalist had long spoken of this fish.
It used us in a way.
He came to the table with a bright, almost shaky white color.
The chef boiled him.
Stop twice.
Amazingly, he was still consolidating.
Who can taste a fish so good after being boiled?
I cannot, but this type can.
Call him Miguel. Indeed, he means Miguel.
And no, he has not boiled the fish, and he is not a chef, at least in the way they and I understand.
He is a biologist at Veta La Palma.
This is a fish up in the southern western corner of Spain.
It is close to the munich of Guadalquivir.
Until the 1980's, the farm was in the hands of argentines.
They flated meat cows what were essentially wetlands.
They made it by turning the country into watershed.
They built this complicated consequence of channels, and they pushed water out of the country and beyond.
Now, they could not make the turns, not economically.
And it was ecologically a disaster.
It brought about 90% of the birds, which are many birds for this place.
So, in 1982, a Spanish firm bought the country.
What have they done?
They reversed water flow.
They have literally laid the leverage.
Instead of pushing the water out, they used the channels to rebuild water.
They flooded the channels.
They created an 11,000 hectares of fish – barh, sea, garnele, aal – and have completely reversed Miguel and its firm's ecological destruction.
The farm is incredibly.
I think they have never seen this.
They are sticky on the horizon that is one million miles away, and all they see are flooded channels and this density, abundant March.
I was not long ago with Miguel.
He is a stunning guy, three parts Charles Darwin, and part "A crown to silence."
Okay? There were we and struggled by wetlands and I keuche and vil-dashi, mach has a kind of science, and Miguel continues to lecture itself.
Here he highlights a rare equivalent.
Now he mentions the minerals of phytoplancet.
Here, he sees a pattern of alliances reminiscent of the Tanzanian Empire.
It turns out that Miguel has spent most of his career in crony park in Africa.
I asked him how he has become a fish expert.
He said, "Fish? I don't know about fish.
I am an expert on relations. "
And then he is going to fall in more talk of rare birds and strange water plants.
And they do not understand me wrong, which was truly fascinating, they know that the biotic community unplugged, in the way.
It is great, but I was in love.
And my head was weak about this bloody piece of rigid fiscal I had on the eve.
So I interrupted him. I said, "Miguel, how does your seafood be so good?"
He showed the seaweed.
"I know that young, the seaweed, the phytoplancet, relations that is incredibly.
But what about your fish?
How is the feed depreciation? "
Now he continues to tell me that it is such a rich system that the fish of what they would eat in the wilderness.
The plant biomass, the phytoplanco convention, which is poised to survive, which is what the fish feed.
The system is so healthy, it is entirely self-reinernd.
There is no food.
The one farm belongs to its animals?
Later on the day, I drove him around the land with Miguel, and I asked him, "For a place that seems to be," Unlike any farm I had ever been, "How measured you succeed?"
At the moment, it was as if a film director had demanded a change.
And we bent around the corner, and we offered the most imperfect sight, thousands and thousands of flare-up with a literally pinker.
"That is success," He said.
"Look at their pockets, pink.
It inhibits them. "
Worse? I was totally confused.
I said, "Miguel, don't get your fish?"
"Yes," He said.
"We lose 20% of our fish and fish eggs to the birds.
Now last year, this land was 600,000 birds, more than 250 different species.
It has now become the largest and one of the most important private bird development across Europe.
I said, "Miguel, isn't the last thing you want to do on a fish?"
As a result, the head has made no.
He said, "We build extensively, not intense.
This is an environmental network.
The flyprus eat the shrimp.
The shrimp are eating the phytoplanic farm.
So the pinker of the stomach the better the system. "
Okay, let us reconsider this. A farm that does not light their animals and a farm that measures their success on the health of their predators.
A fish lift, but also a bird reserve.
Oh, and by the way, these flare-up should not be there.
They reversed in a city of 240 kilometers, where the natural nature is better for nesty construction.
Every morning, they fly 240 miles to farm.
And every evening, they fly 240 miles back.
They do so because they can follow the landline white line of the landline A92.
Serious.
I had imagined a kind of trip to the continent, so I looked Miguel.
I said, "Miguel, you fly 240 kilometers to the farm, and you fly 240 miles back on the evening?
Do they make this for children? "
He looked to me as if I just cited a song of Whitney Houston.
He said, "No. They do that because the food is better."
I have not mentioned the skin of my dear, which was consolidated, and I may not mess it. I may not mess it.
It is this one thing, costing.
I almost never coct it.
And yet, when I tried it in southern Spain, it did not lift it into fish skin.
It tailed sweet and as if you were to take a treat from the ocean.
I mentioned this to Miguel and he nicked.
He said, "The skin looks like a sponge.
It is the last defense before something enters the body.
It has evolved over the course of evolution to look at unreinateral. "
And then he added, "But our water does not have uncertainties."
Okay. A farm that doesn't feed their fish; a farm that measures their success on the success of their fishing predators.
And then I became clear when he says a farm that does not undermine unreinateral, because the water flowing through this farm comes from the Guadalquivir.
It is a flux that leads all of the things that now depend on rivers to lead them, chemical pollutants, deflow of damaging deterrence.
And when it fought through the system, leaving the water of cleaner than it has come.
The system is so healthy; it rests water.
So not only a farm that affects their animals, not just a farm that measures their success on the health of their predators, but a farm that is literally a water extension plant, not just for these fish, but also for you and me.
After all, when water flows out, it falls in the Atlantic.
A drop in the ocean, I know, but I take it, and they should do so, because this love story, such as romantic, is also instructive.
One might say that it is a recipe for the future of good food, whether we speak of bark or meat mitigation.
What we need now is a radically new concept of agriculture, one in which food actually taste good.
But for many people, this is a bit too radical.
We are not realists; we are lover.
We love weeks. We love small family farms; we talk about regional food; we eat bio.
And if they claim that this is what the future of good food is to reassure someone somewhere and says, "Man, I love pinke flppy, but how will they feed the world?
How will they feed the world? "
Can I be honest?
I don't like that question
No, not because we already produce enough calories to feed the world more than just.
A billion people will now go hungry.
One billion – more than ever – owing to gross disparities in distribution, not total output.
Now I may not ask this question because it has shaped the logic of our food system over the past 50 years.
Add corn to plant herbivores, damaging monocultures, chemicals to the earth, chicken, and the agricultural industry simply asked: "If we feed more people cheaper, how scary can it be?"
That was the motivation. It was the justification; it was America's business plan.
We should call them what it is, a trade in resolution, a commercial commercial that is rapidly capturing environmental capital that enables this production.
This is no commercial, and it is not agriculture.
Today, our corrode is threatened, not because of absent, but by declining resources.
Not through the newest's resentment and tractor invention, but by fertile land, not through pumps, but by fresh water, rather than Chain failures, but by forests, not through fishing boats and networks, but by the sea.
They want to feed the world?
Let us start with the question: how will we feed ourselves?
Or better, how can we create conditions that enable each community to feed itself?
To do so, don't look at the agricultural model for the future.
It is really old, and it is done.
Capital, chemistry, and machines are on top, and it has never really produced something good for food.
Instead, look at the environmental model.
That is what is taking back to two billion years of labor.
Look at Miguel, farmers like Miguel.
Companies that are not worlds for themselves to restore businesses rather than use, businesses that grow extensively rather than intense farmers who are not only producers, but experts for relations.
For they are those who are pundits as well.
And if I am honest, they are a better koch than I will ever be.
You know, that is right, because if the future is good food, it will be more resilient.
Thank you.
If I want to achieve one thing today, it is that the whole of the data we consume is greater than the sum of their parts, rather than thinking about how we can think about how information as we can use, and we see trends that would otherwise have become visible.
For example, what we see here is a point of euthanasia.
The program I used here is a small experiment.
It is vot, and what I can do with Pivot is that I can filter into a certain death cause, say, accidents.
And I immediately see another pattern that emerges.
While people are the most important assets in the central area, and they are the most consequential.
We can move beyond and redistribute the data, and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects, but not everyone.
If we continue, and after age, we say 40 years or younger, we see that accidents are even the main cause about which people should worry.
And who supports this is particularly true of men.
So they recognize that the view of information and data is very reminiscent of swimming in a vibrant information chart.
And if we make this for raw data, why not do we make content for itself?
What we have here is the front-page images of every "Sports" That have ever been printed.
It is all here. It is all online.
They can like to test it in their rooms after my presentation.
With Pivot, they can live into a decade.
They can live in a certain year.
They can jump directly to a certain issue.
When I look here, I see the athletes that appear in this issue and play sports.
I am a Lance Armstrong fan, so I am here, giving me all expenditures in which Lance Armstrong is mentioning.
Now, if I want to see only a sharp overlook, I might think "OK, what if I look at everything with the topic?"
So I go a step back and another view.
Now I see Greg LeMond.
And so one can get an idea that if you search for this kind of information, you pick up more targeted, more broad-based, reintailored, you don't
One makes something that is actually a little different.
It is something between, and we think it changes the way information can be used.
I want to do this idea a bit further, say, what is a bit crazy.
What we have done here is we have taken each individual of its own pediments and reduced them to a small summary.
The summary contains a short oversight and a symbol of the area it comes.
I just show the top 500 of the most popular wikileaks.
But even in this limited view, we can do a lot of things.
Immediately, we get a glimpse of the issues that are most popular on Wikipedia.
I will now choose the issue of 'government.'
Now, after I voted 'government, I recognize that the wikileaks units that most cover time magazine are "People of the year."
This is really important, because this is a realization that is not in a single wikileaks regime.
This is only to see when one goes back and looks at the whole.
Looking forward to some of these summarized summaries, I can then go into the theme of time magazine "People of the year," And all see together.
If I look at all of these people, I recognize that the majority of government officials are government; some come from science; some, less, come from the economy. Here is my head, and one comes from the music area.
Interestingly, fanfare is also a prize winner.
As a result, we can bounce and look at all TED prize winners.
We see surfing the net the first time it really is a net, not only by side, but much more abstract.
So I want to show you what might be a small surprise.
I just show you the new York times website.
Pivot, this application – I don't like to call it an browser; it is really no browser, but you can see web sites – and we bring this zoom technology to every single website like this.
So I can go a step down, and jump directly to a specific secession.
This is important because one can only look at web sites in this way that can view the entire Internet trajectory in the same way.
So I can tap into a specific timeline in my course.
Here is the entire demonstration I have kept up to here.
And I can, in a way, get everything I have seen today.
And, if I look again and look at everything, I may reorder my course after my search past, where I searched for 'nepotistic', there, to Bing, or live Labs.
And I can go into the side and call it again.
It is a metaphor that is used repeatedly, and every time the whole picture makes it greater than the sum of the data rush.
At the moment in the world, we think that data are a curse.
We are talking about the flood of information.
We talk of "Drown into information."
What if we could turn this situation around and turn the Internet on its head, so that instead of ever going from one to another, we are beginning to see many things, thereby recognizing what otherwise would be hidden?
If we can do so, this past data trap, perhaps a new source of sense of information.
And, instead of just moving into information, we can get knowledge of it.
And if we know, we may even get away from it.
That is why I am told.
I grew up with a complacent science fiction.
In my school time, I drove the bus to school each day one hour per day.
And my nose has always been in a book, a science fiction book that led my thoughts in other worlds, and my deep in my seat, unexpectedly satisfied.
This curiosity turned out to be that, if I was not in school, I gathered trees, walking, "Samples" And "Gathered color lines and cabinets, and background water, all at home and looked at under the bloc.
I was all excited about science, you know.
It was always about trying to understand the world and outweigh the limits of possible.
And my love of science fiction seemed to be recalled in my environment, because then, in the late 1960s, we flew to the moon and studied the deep sea.
Jacques Cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating content that showed us animals and places full of wonder that we could never imagine before.
That may well fit the science fiction role.
And I was an artist.
I could draw.
And, because neither video games nor the overarching of computer films nor the entire media language, I had to create the images in my head.
We all had to do so when we read a book as children, we took the description of the author and project them on the screen in our minds
My response was this and painting from alien, alien worlds, robots, space ships, and all that.
In mathematics teaching, I was caught around by teachers, as I hide behind my book.
Creativity somehow had to stop.
And something interesting happened: I was fascinated by Jacques coustestems, the idea of an entirely unknown world here on earth itself.
To be sure, I would never reach an alien world with a spacecraft that seemed quite unlikely to me.
But here was a world I could actually enter here on earth, and it was as fascinating and exotic as all I had always imagined when I read these books.
So, when I was 15, I decided to become scuba.
The only problem was that I lived in a small village in Canada, $10,000 kilometers away from the next ocean.
But I did not discourage this.
I nervously nervte my father until he finally made a high-dip school in 1977, new York, just on the other side of the border where we lived.
I appeared in a pool of YMCA in the midst of winter in 1977, new York.
But the ocean, a real ocean, I became face only two years later when we moved to California.
Since then, in the 40 years that have now been divisive, I have spent about 3 hours below water, 500 hours from submerged.
And I have learned that the world of the deep seas, even in the dark oceans, is as rich as we really can hardly imagine.
Nature's imagination does not know borders, unlike our own, dismal human imagination.
Until today, I find deepest awe of what I see on my orbit.
And my love for the ocean holds, with the same intensity as ever.
When I searched as an adult profession, it was the filmmaker.
This seemed the best way to unify my inner drive to tell stories with my need to create images.
As a child, I recorded cartoon books and so.
So movies were the way to bring together images and stories.
Of course, the stories I searched were "Terminator" "" Aliens "And" Abyss. "
At "Abyss," I was able to connect my preference for the securities and converge with the filmmakers.
Inspired my two passions.
Something interesting happened to "Ss": to solve a narrative problem in this film - and, while we had to create a kind of liquid water – we took back on computer animation, CG.
What came up with this was the first computer sur-surrendered character ever seen in a movie.
While the film did not make money, he just said his production costs, I noticed something intriguing: the audience around the world was as hypnotified by the magic that went out.
Arthur's law, notably advanced technology and magic, is no longer different.
So they saw something magic.
And I found this incredibly exciting.
And I thought, "Gregious, that must be part of the film art."
So we went to "Terminator 2" My next film, much further.
Together with ILM, we created the types of liquid metal, and the success depended entirely on how that effect would happen.
And it worked; again, we had created something magic, and the impact in the audience was the same, but we have already played a bit more money with the film.
From these two experiences, a very new world has been reached, a whole new world of creativity for movie creators.
So I started a firm, together with my good friend Winston, who was the best make-up- and creature-designer, called "Digital Domain."
The core idea of this firm was to leapfrog the phase of analogous processes with jet print, etc., and start with digital productivity.
We did so, and then gave us a competitive advantage for a time.
But in the mid-1990's, we found that we were beginning to move toward creature- and non-existent design – which we actually started the firm.
I had written this piece "Avatar," Which should postpone the bar on the radio effects and computerized effects across new heights, with realistic human, expressions of characters produced by CG, and the main figures should be all CG and the world should be CG.
But the bar put it all the way back, and the people in my firm told me that we were not in place to do so.
So I postponed this, making this other film about the big ship undergoing.
I sold this as a ````whato and yulia on a ship, "A love film of epic proportions, a passionate film.
But, in fact, I wanted to slip into the real rush of the Titanic.
That is why I made the film.
That is the truth. But the room did not know it.
But I persuaded them by saying, "We dive into ruins; we films are the real wreck.
We will show it in the opening sequence of the film.
This is important. It is a good bet for marketing. "
And I persuaded them to finance an expedition.
Sounds crazy, but that goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality.
Indeed, six months later, we created a reality in which I found myself in a Russian submarine four miles below the north Atlantic surface, and looked at the real Titanic by a bullish.
This was not a film, no HD, that was real.
So I have really moved.
And preparations were huge; we had to build cameras and spotbacks and everything possible.
And I noticed how much of these lows resembled a space mission.
Well, they were highly technically and permitted extensive planning.
One is rising into this adventure, then you are in this dark, hostile environment, where there is no hope for saving if you don't get back.
And I thought, "Nice, that is as if I were in a science-fiction film.
That is cool. "
I was practically obsessed with exploring the deep sea.
In any case, the share of curiosity and science has been everything; it was an adventure, it was curious.
And there was a experience that I Hollywood could not give.
For, they know, I could imagine a character for which we could make a visual effect, but I couldn't imagine what I would see outside the fence-style.
In some of the ensuing expeditions, I have seen essence in thermalaise sources, and sometimes things I had never seen before before, sometimes things that no one had seen before, and for the science at the time when we saw them no words.
So I got it right, and I wanted more.
So I met a somewhat unusual decision.
After the success of "Titanic" I said, "Okay, I want to chart my main career as a filmmaker in Hollywood on ice, and will be full-time researchers for a while."
And then we began to have appeared to be "Bismarck," And they studied robotics witnesses.
We reversed the Titanic rush.
We took small robots that we built that raged a fiberglascable.
Our intention was to paint in and watch the interior of the shiffs, which had never been done before.
No one had studied the internal fires; it had no means, so we developed the technology needed.
Now, as I sit on the Titanic helm, a submarine ride, and see planks that are pretty similar to these brewers, and I know that the band once played there.
And I fly with a small robotics experience through shiffs.
While I really lamented it, my consciousness is within the vehicle.
It felt that I would be present to physically within the rush of the Titanic.
This was the surreal form of a déjà vu I have ever experienced, because before I ever had a corner of bog, I always knew what would emerge in the sword's shak of the vehicle, as I ran over monthly movie set when we sat the movie.
The set was precisely a copy of the shiffs'construction plans.
So that was a highly curious experience.
It made me aware of this telegraphic experience that you use such robot witnesses, thereby shifting your consciousness into the vehicle, in this other form of existence.
It was really profound.
And perhaps a small outlook at what might happen in a few decades if you have nazg bodies to explore something or do other things in all possible post-humane future that I can imagine as a science-fiction-fan.
After these expeditions, we began to learn what we saw down, for example, these lows, where we saw these incredibly stunning animals, which are virtually alien, but on earth.
They live with chemotherapy.
They do not exist in a sunlight based system, as we do.
And, in addition to a 500 ° C, they see animals that can survive there.
At the same time, I was also interested in space science, which was again from my childhood science.
And so I came to the people interested in outer space and who have done with NASA and sit in the NASA expertise council and plan the right space missions to go through Russia, taking the biomedical protocol above the mission and hand, fly to the international space system, and 3D space system.
This was fascinating.
But, at the end, it was insisting that I took into the deep seas.
I took them down and muddling them with the world: astrobiologists, planetary scientists, people interested in such extreme situations, and I took them to the sources so that they could look around and test tools, and so
We have been focusing on documentary films, but in fact, science, more accurately: space science.
For example, the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan, then as a child, and implementation entered reality.
Over the course of this trip, I learned a lot.
I have learned a lot about science, but I certainly think you, a director must also lead a leader like shipping or so.
But I understood not much leadership before I joined these expeditions.
For at a certain point, I had to say, "What I actually do here?
Why do I do that? What comes out? "
These ingredients don't get us money.
We are just playing the cost of production. It is not a lane.
All think I had gone away between "Titanic" And "Avatar," And would have celebrated the nails on a tissue on the beach somewhere.
I made all these films, these documentary films, for a very small audience.
No honor, no honor, no money. What do you do?
You are doing the task for the sake of the challenge – and the ocean is the challenger environment there, and you are doing it for a discovery because of the strange connection that arises when a small group of people forms a team.
For we have done all of this with only 10 to 12 people who have worked uninterrupted for years, sometimes we have been on sea for 2 to 3 months.
And in this community, one recognizes that the most important cause is respect to one another, because it has a task that cannot explain.
If you return to land and you say, "We had to do it, the fiberglass that weakens, and the entire engineering, and the difficulties that human performance when you work on sea," Then you cannot explain the other, like the cop, or something that is in the cop.
There is a connection, mutual respect.
So, when I returned to turn my next film "Avatar," I tried to use the same leadership style that you respect his team and deserve her in exchange.
This has really changed the dynamism.
So, because I was back with a small team in unknown terrain, we sat "Avatar" With a new technology that has not yet existed.
Incredibly.
A huge challenge.
And we became a right family for a four and a half years.
This changed my way to make movies completely.
There were people who thought that we had done such ocean well and transport the planet on the Pandora.
For me, it was more principled to do my job, the real process that has changed in the outcome.
So what can we conclude from all this?
What lessons have we learned?
I think first is curiosity.
It is the most powerful human trait.
Our imagination is a force that can even create a reality.
And respect to your team is more important than all of the world's lorg.
To me, young filmmakers who say, "Give me a council of how to do so."
And I say, "Don't constrain yourself.
There are others for you. Don't ask yourself, not against yourself, but take risks on you. "
NASA has one favorite sentence: "Failure is not an alternative."
But, in the arts and research, there must be an alternative, because there is a trust board there.
No major undertaking that demanded innovation was ever addressed without risk.
One must be willing to take such risks.
This is the idea I like to give you on the road. It is an alternative fear, but it is not.
Today, I am talking about energy and climate.
And perhaps this is surprising because my full-time job at the foundation is spinning mainly for vaccines and seeds to make things we invent and deliver better lives to the poorest 2 billion.
But energy and climate are extremely important for these people, indeed, more important than anyone else on the planet.
Climate deterioration means that their says will not grow for many years; we are too much or too little; things will change as they cannot keep their fragile environment.
This leads to hunger. It leads to uncertainty. It leads to unrest.
So climate change will become terrible for them.
Moreover, the energy price for them is very important.
The fact is that if only one cause could reduce the price, poverty reduction would be far the most effective.
Now energy price has fallen over time.
Indeed, progressive society is based on energy progress.
The coal fueled the industrial revolution, and even in the twentieth century, there was a rapid fall in electricity prices, and so we have refrigerated, climate conditioning, we can produce modern materials and do so many things.
So we are in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.
But, if we reduce the price – let us reduce the price – meet a new barrier and that barrier depends on CO2 combined.
CO2 warming the planet and the equation of CO2 is pretty clear.
They will raise CO2, which leads to temperature increases, and that temperature increase has some very negative consequences. Effects on the weather, and perhaps worse, the indirect consequence that natural ecosystems cannot adapt to such rapid changes, thereby falling together systems.
Now, the exact context of a carbon increase and the resulting temperature change and where the consequences remain, there are some ambiguity, but not very many.
And there is certainly no clarity about how bad these consequences will be, but they will be extremely bad!
I asked the top scientists several times: "Must we really come down to zero?
Is it not half or one-quarter? "
The answer is: until we close to zero, temperature will continue to rise.
That is why it is a major challenge.
It is very different from saying that we have a 3.5 foot truck that must be under a 3 m bridge, which can be like to squeeze.
This is at the bottom, to zero.
Now we run a lot of carbon dioxide every year, more than 26 billion tons.
Each Americans, for example, 20 tons. People from poor countries, less than one.
On average, it is about 5 tons for every planet.
And somehow we must create changes that reduce the zero level.
It has been growing constant.
Only different economic changes have affected it at all, and we need to reduce rapid growth and reduce to zero.
This equation has four factors. A bit more multiplier; it has this thing on the left - CO2 – which wants to close to zero, and that will depend on the number of people on the services that everyone uses on average, the average energy for every service, and CO2, per unit of energy.
So let us look at each factor individually and consider how we get to zero.
One of these figures probably must come very close to zero.
Now this is basic immunization, but let us go through.
First, we have the population.
Today, 6.8 billion people live
And it amounts to 9 billion.
If we are very successful with new vaccines, health care, and reproductive medicine, we may reduce that by 10% to 15%, but at the time we see a Pivot by 1.3%.
The second factor is the services we use.
This includes all the food we eat, clothing, television, heating.
These are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services accessible to everyone on the planet.
This number is great.
In the rich world, at the top billion, we may well dismantle and use less benefits, but on average, that number will rise each year and thus more than double, the number of services provided per person.
Here we see a very basic service, with light at home to read homework?
And these students do not, so they go out and read their debts under the road.
Now, at the effectiveness that E, energy per service, there is finally good news.
We have something that is not rising
There are many services whose energy expenditures in the light sector, through other types of buildings, with new methods in house construction, which some individual services are reducing by 90%.
In other services, like fertilizer production, 105: 56,000 – 56,000 – and 05: 58,000 or air traffic, the room for improvement is much smaller.
Overall, if we are optimistic, we may get a reduction by a factor of 3 or perhaps even a factor of 6.
But, at the first three factors, we have now gone from 26 billion to perhaps aller-13 billion tons, and that is simply not enough!
So consider the fourth factor – and this will be a key factor – the amount of CO2 emitting per unit of energy.
The question is whether you can get to zero.
If you burn coal, no.
If you burn natural gas, no.
Almost any manufacturing method for electricity nowadays is CO2, except renewable energy and nuclear energy.
So what we must do on a global level is to create a new system.
We need energy miracle.
If I use the term "Wonders," I don't mean the impossible.
The microtest is a miracle. The pc is a miracle.
The Internet and services are surprising.
People here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles.
Normally, there is no deadline that it needs a miracle until a given date.
Normally, it is almost wrong, and some do not come.
In that case, we need to give full gas and get a miracle very short time.
Now I wondered how can I really get it?
Is there a natural illustration, a demonstration that fuels the idea of people?
I reminded me last year when I brought mosquitoes and somehow liked it.
The idea was really tangible for them, they know that there are people living with mosquitoes.
I was here for energy.
I decided that this would be my favorite contribution to the environment this year.
So there are some natural ardent armies.
I have insured that they do not bite; indeed, they will not even leave the glass.
Now, there are all kinds of capacity solutions such as these, but they all do not bring much.
We need solutions, either one or several of which have an unimaginable scale and unimaginable reliability, and, though there are many directions where people seek, I really see just five who can afford these major requirements.
I left geothermal, merger, and biofuels.
This may be a moderate contribution, and if I expect better than I expect, but my core statement here is that we need to work on all five, and we cannot abandon them because they are intimidated, because all have significant problems.
Consider first burning fossil fuels, burning coal or natural gas.
What one needs to do here may seem simple, but it is not. You need to capture all the CO2 that comes after burning the schornstein, pressure of liquid and then somewhere, and hope that it remains there.
There are some pilot projects that create at a 60% level - 80% level, but it will be very difficult to get to 100%, and to reach an agreement on CO2 storage is a major challenge, but the biggest problem here is the storage issue.
Who will ensure it?
Who can guarantee something, literally many billion times greater than any kind of waste that can be imagined by nuclear and other things?
That is a volume.
So this is a hard nuss.
Next, nuclear energy.
This has three major problems. The costs, especially in highly regulated countries, are high, and the question of security is that nothing can go wrong, despite the human work that the fuel is not used for weapons.
And what do you do with the waste?
For, although it is not very large, there are plenty of concerns.
So three very difficult problems that may be overcome, and so they should work.
The last three of the five I summarized.
They are renewables, as they are often called.
And they have – although it is great that they need no fuel – they have some downside shocks.
One is the energy edifice that these technologies generate dramatically lower than the power plants.
These are energy-poor, one hears many square kilometers, thousands of times more than a normal plant.
These sources are also underminent:
The sun does not seem all day, nor does it seem to be blowing all day, and the wind does not constantly.
That is why, if one depends on these sources, you must have a way to get energy in times if it is not available.
So there are major price challenges here. There are challenges in transmission, for example, when we say that the country's energy source is outside of the country, they do not only need the technology to circumvent the risk that energy from where different comes from.
And there is the storage problem.
And, to show the dimension, I have looked at all kinds of batteries produced: cars, computers, phones, flashlights, and I have used the amount of electronic energy compared to the world; I found that all batteries we can produce less than 10 minutes.
So we need a big breakthrough here, something that will be 100 better than the used approaches at the time.
This is not impossible, but it is not so easy.
This is what happens when you try to get these underlying sources above 20% - 30% of consumption.
If you want to rely on 100%, you need an incredible silver battery.
Now, where should we go: what is the right approach?
A "Manhattan project"? how are we headed?
What we need are many companies working to do. Hundreds of them are.
In each of these five areas, we need at least 100 people.
For many, they will say, they are crazy! That is good.
I believe here in the TED group, there are many who are already engaged.
Bill gross has several firms, including an eSolar named eSolar has great solar technologies.
Vinod Khosla is investing in dozens of companies, and there are interesting ways to support this.
Nathan mity and I finance a company that, perhaps surprisingly, pursues the nuclear approach.
There are some innovation in the nuclear area; non-existent.
Development in this industry has stopped some time, so it is not a big surprise that some good concepts are around.
The terrapower-concept means that, instead of a portion of the urans, one% the U235, we decided to burn the 99%, the U238.
This is a fairly insane idea.
But, in fact, it has long thought about it, but it has never been able to simulate whether it would work, but there is modern supercomputers since then, you can simulate it: yes! With the right materialist approach, it seems that it works.
And, because you burn these 99%, the cost-profile is much better.
In fact, you burn the waste, and you can even use the waste of today's reactors as a driving agent.
Rather than breaking the head, they simply burn it.
The uranium is consumed gradually, a bit like one.
They see that it is a sort of pillar, often described as "Migrating wave of reactor."
This really triggers the fuel problem.
Here is a picture of where Kentucky is.
That is the waste that 99% has been burned today, meaning that it is burning.
The drivers of the us for hundreds of years.
And when water is favorable and simply filing enough fuel for the planet's rest of life.
They know that there are many challenges, but it is an example of many concepts we need to come forward.
Consider how to measure our success.
What should our testimony look like?
Now we go until the goal we must achieve, and then we talk about the interim step.
Many speak of an 80% reduction by 2050.
It is really important that we get there.
The other 20% will be generated in poor countries, and still something agriculture, one hopes that waldrohdung and cement will be clean up until then.
So, to achieve this 80%, developed countries, including China, must redirect their electrification generation.
The other note is whether we use zero emissions technology whether it is used in all developed countries, and we are on the way to get it to the rest.
That is super important.
This will be a key element of this toy.
If we fall from there, what should the 2020 paper look like?
The two elements should be contained again.
We should use the effective measures to reduce the path; the less we are issuing, the lower carbon sum will be, and hence the temperature.
But, in fact, this note for the things we companies that do not entirely lead to the large reductions, or even slightly less important than the others, which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs.
These breakthroughs must be pursued with full gas, and we can measure this: in corporate figures, pilot projects, and regulatory changes.
There are many great books on this issue.
The Al Gore book "We have the choice" And David mckays'sustainable energy without the hot air. "
They are really going through and creating a framework in which this can be discussed, because we need support from all sides.
There is much to come together.
That is a desire.
A very concrete desire to invent this technology.
If you allow me only a desire for the next 50 years, I could choose the president, a vaccine, and I love, or I could choose that desire, which is halved energy price without CO2, I would like that desire.
This has the greatest impact.
If we don't get this desire, the gap between the long term and short-term people will be terrible, between the us and China, divided between poor and rich countries, and almost all of this 2 billion will be much worse.
So what must we do?
What actions do I appeal?
We must use more research.
If countries meet in places like pensions, they should not only talk about CO2.
They should discuss this innovation strategy, and they would be shocked by the ridiculously low money spent on these innovative approaches.
We need market incentives, CO2 taxes, cap & amp; trade something that creates a price signal.
We must spread the news.
We must lead dialogue more rational and complete, and also the things made by the government.
It is an important desire, but I think we can meet it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you!
Thanks to only a better understanding of TerraPower – for example, can you give us a idea of the magnitude of this investment?
Bill Gates – to engineer all the major scientists we have done, we need only some 10 million, and even if we tested our materials in a Russian reactor to ensure that it works reasonable, it is only in the 100th million.
The difficult step is to build the first reactor, find another billion, the regularists, and the place of the first.
Once the first deal is as promised, it is all very clear, because the economic bias that energy energy is so different than nuclear energy we know it.
To understand this right: this means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical pillar of nuclear fuel, which used uranium, and then the process begins above and is working down?
Bg – exactly, today, they must always replenish the reactor, so there are many people and many controls that can go wrong, opening it and putting things in – not good!
But if you have very cheap fuel, you can fill it for 60 years – think of a pillar – which you bury it without the entire complexities.
And it is sitting there and burning 60 years, and then it is finished.
A nuclear reactor, which provides a solution to the waste.
Bg – yes, what happens to the waste: you can put it – there is much less waste with this method – take it and get it in the next reactor and burn it.
And we are beginning to take the waste already exists, which is in these cooling basin or droughts in reactors, which is our starting fuel.
So what is a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our filling, thereby reducing the waste volume dramatically during this process.
But, while they have spoken with different people around the world about these possibilities.
Where is the greatest interest in doing so?
Bg – we have not yet set on a place, and there is a lot of interesting legal rules for everything called the "Nucleus"; there is a lot of interest and the people of the company were in Russia, India, China... I was here, and made the energy agenda and the energy agenda.
I am optimistic. They know that the French and Japanese have made something in the direction.
This is a variant of one thing made.
This is an important step forward, but it is like a faster reactor, and some countries have built it, so everyone who has implemented a rapid reactor is a candidate for our first.
In her idea, the time frame and probability of doing so truly into life?
Bg – now we need one of these scalable, electricity generated things that are very favorable, we have 20 years to invent and then use 20 years.
This is the sort of deadline that the environmental models we need to think.
And, you know, TerraPower if everything is good, and that is a great desire to keep it easy.
Fortunately, there are dozens of firms today, and we need hundreds that, as well as if their approaches work, which can promote their pilots' promotion.
And it would be best if it can create several, because then you could use a mix.
In any case, we need a solution.
In the end of the great potential breakthroughs, is this the greatest one they know?
Bg – an energy breakthrough is the most important.
This would have been without the environmental demand, but it makes it much more important.
In the nuclear sector, there are other innovative firms.
Do you know whose work is not as good as this, but there is the modular method that is another approach.
There is a liquid reactortype that seems difficult, but perhaps they say about us.
And so there are several, but the brave thing about the fact that a urgently fix has a million times the energy it takes, say, a coal gene, and therefore, if they can deal with the problems, and are mainly the radiation, the footprint, and the costs that play the potential to the rest of the country.
If that does not happen, then?
Should we take emergency action to try to keep the earth's temperature stable?
Bg – when it comes to this situation, it is like eating too much, and is about a heart attack on a heart attack, which might be a heartbeat operation or something.
There is a research direction called geoengineering, which deals with various techniques to delay warming, so that we would spend 20 or 30 years longer.
That is only an insurance method.
One hopes that we don't need that.
Some people say that you should not work to insurance only because you might make the bad thing, so you continue to find it, because you know that you will save the heart operation.
I don't know whether this is wise if you lead to the importance of this problem, but there is now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have it available if things come faster, or that innovation needs longer than we expect.
Climate-change professionals: do you have one or two rates to convince you?
Bg – unfortunately, skeptics live in very different camps.
Those who make scientific arguments are very little.
Do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds shifting things?
There are very few things they can say at all that there is an opportunity in a million.
The main problem here is as similar to AIDS.
One makes the mistake now, and you pay very much later.
And that is why, now, if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have only later – and that investment is not so clear. Indeed, the IPCC report is not necessarily the worst scenario, and there are people in the rich world who don't look well.
The fact is that this uncertainty should be worried.
But my dream here is that if you can make it economically, while eliminating CO2, the skeptics say, "Okay, I don't care that it is not a CO2, I wish it would do so, but I would probably accept it because it is cheaper than the previous method."
And that would be their answer to the björn Lomborg argument that if you use all of this time and energy to solve the CO2 problem, all of the other objectives are suffering, poverty reduction, reduction, and so on that there is a waste of resources to invest.
Bg – now spending on research – say, the us should spend 10 billion per year more than they do today – this is not so dramatic.
Moreover, other things should not suffer.
There is too big money, and sensible people can disagree with what is not economic, and try to finance it. For me, the most waste is wasted.
It is, for it is very short of a cost-breakthrough, financing only the learning curve; I think we should try more things that have the potential to be much more favorable.
If the bottom line you get is a very high energy price, only the rich can keep up.
I mean that every of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle.
But it is a disaster for the bottom two billion.
And even Lomborg is thinking.
His new masche is now: "Why will research no longer be discussed?"
He is still associated with the skepticism camp because of his earlier stories, but he understood that this is a very lonely group, and so he now brings the research argument.
And that is an idea I think appropriate.
Research is simply crazy how little it supports.
Bill, I think I am speaking for almost all people when I say, my hope that their desire will be true, thanks to many.
Bg – thank you.
A few years ago, Peter Skillman proposed a design competition called "The antarctic low-challenge."
The idea is quite simple. Fourteen teams must build the most competitive structure with 20 spaghetti, about 1m tape, a thread, and a Dutch Dutch.
The Netherlands must be on top.
And, although it really seems easy, it is really hard to work quickly because people are pushing them together quickly.
And I thought that this is an interesting idea, and I have transformed it into a design workshop.
It was a huge success.
Since then, I have done some 70 refugees around the world, with students, developers, and architects, even with CTOs of fortunes, and there is something about this task, enabling deep images to cooperate, and I want to share some of them.
Normally, most people are beginning to turn themselves to the task.
They are talking about what it will look like to rule out power.
Then they invest a little time in planning and organization; they outline and discount spaghetti.
They invest much of their time in the cohesion.
Finally, just before they don't have time, someone will take the Netherlands and put it hodly on the top, step back and "Ta-da!" they admire their work.
But what happened almost always is that the "Ta-da" Becomes a "```````````````````````````````````````````````````fool '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' ''
There are a number of people who have much more "`````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````@@
They lie they are cheating, they are confused, and produce genuinely palpable entities.
And, of course, teams have the far more "Ta-da" Entity, and among the best fresher graduates of the child garment.
And that is quite surprising.
As Peter told us, they produce not only the highest towers, but also the most interesting structures of all.
What you might ask is: how does this happen? Why? What about them?
And Peter says, "Neither children are pouring time to be the head of spaghetti gmbh."
They do not invest time in power.
But there is another reason.
While bwl students were trained to find the right plan, OK!
And it will be realized.
What happens when they seize the Netherlands, they have no time and what happens?
It is a crisis.
Is familiar with what?
What makes children different is that they begin with the Netherlands and build prototype, successful prototype, always at the helm of the Netherlands, so that they have the opportunity to fix a clean program.
Constructers recognize this kind of cooperation as the core of a iterative process.
And, with each attempt, children get immediate feedback, and what doesn't work.
For example, the performance of working with prototype is far but we see how different teams operate.
The average for most is about 50cm, bwls students create half of them, lawyers create a little more, but not much child horrors are better than adults.
Who is the most successful?
Architects and engineers, fortunately.
1m is the highest thing I saw.
And why? Because they understand and recognize sich-self-reinforcing observers are the key to building stable structures.
CEOs are something about average, but it is interesting.
If an executive administrator on the team, they will be significantly better.
It is incredibly. You see "This team will win."
They can predict that. Why is this happening?
Because they have special litigation capabilities.
They lead the process, they understand it.
And the team that rules and views work will significantly improve the team's performance.
Specialized skills and litigation capabilities and the combination of success.
If you have 10 teams who are typical, you get about 6, the stable structures.
I tried something exciting.
I thought we will bring the pokernel use.
So I offered a $10,000 price of software for the winner.
What do you think about these design students?
What was the result?
This happened. Not a team had a stable structure.
If anyone had built a 2.5cm high construction, he would have supported the price at home.
So is it not interesting that high competition has a strong effect?
We reiterated this exercise with the same students.
What do you think happened?
Now they understood the advantage of the "Cholera".
For example, the same bad team was among the best.
It produced the highest construction in the least time.
There are thus profound lessons for us, about the nature of driving and success.
They may ask: why would someone actually invest time to create a mega-low challenge?
The reason is that I work digital tools and processes to help teams create cars, video games, and "Visual effects."
And what the Australian challenge is doing is helping them identify hidden assumptions.
For, frankly, every project has its own monopoly.
The challenge provides a common experience, a common language, or principle, to build the right prototype.
And this is the value of this experience, such a simple exercise.
And those of them who want to visit travelers can be allowed to enter into alpine challenge.Com.
It is a blog where one sees how to build the palestinians.
There is a gradual guidance there.
They find crackdowns of the world, such as people optimize the system and refining.
There are also world religions.
And the basal lesson, I believe, is the construction of a binding sport.
It demands that we all focus on the task, and that we use our thinking optimally, how our emotions and our are doing, in the challenge that lie ahead.
And sometimes a small prototype of this experience is all that it needs to bring us from a "``````````````````````````````````````````````````````````oh 'moment.' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' ''
And that can make a great difference.
Thank you.
If we were to have a machine here.
A big machine, a cool, TED machine, and that is a time machine.
And everyone in this area must be in.
And they can go to the past, they can go to the future; they cannot remain here and now.
And I wonder what they would vote because I have often asked my friends of late this question, and they all wanted to go into the past.
I don't know. They wanted to return time before cars or Twitter or "America is looking for the superstar."
I don't know.
I am convinced that one is somehow drawn to nostalgia.
And I understand that.
I am not part of this group, I must say.
I don't want the past, not because I am an adventurer.
It is because opportunities on the planet do not go back, they go forward.
So I want to go into this machine, and I want to go to the future.
This is the greatest time ever there has been on the planet, whatever measure it takes: health, wealth, mobility, opportunities, falling disease rates.
There has never been a time like this.
My grandparents all died when they were 60.
My grandparents pushed this figure to 70.
My parents are the 80 on the fersen.
So, as one nine should be better at the beginning of my death.
But it is not even people like us, because this is a bigger cause than that.
A child born in new Delhi today is expected to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago.
Think about this. This is an incredible fact.
And why is this?
Smallpox has killed billions of people on the planet.
They have reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever managed.
They are gone. They have disappeared.
We have forced them.
In the rich world, diseases that have barely threatened millions of us before a generation.
Diphps, romania, polio paralysis...
Does anyone even know what this is?
Vaccines, modern medicine, our ability to feed billions of people, the scientific method's successes.
And, in my view, the scientific method is to try things, see whether it works if it does not, one of humanity's greatest achievements.
So that is the good news.
Unfortunately, that is all good news, because there are some other problems, and they have been often mentioned.
One is that, despite all of our achievements, one billion people around the world go to bed hungry every day.
This figure is rising, and it is rising very quickly, and that is shameful.
Not just that, we have used our imagination to devastate this world.
Water, urarable land, rain, oil, gas: disappear, and soon, if we don't turn out of this mess, we also disappear.
So the question is: can we do that? I think so.
I believe it is clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raving the country on which they live.
I think we can provide the world with energy that it does not destroy.
I believe that, and no, that is no wishful thinking.
But this keeps me alive at night – one of the things that keep me alive at night; we have never needed scientific progress as it is now, never.
And we have never been able to adopt it, as we can today.
We are at the brink of astonishing events on many areas, but I really think that we would have to go back hundreds, 300 years before the Enlightenment, to find a time when we fought progress on these issues, more fierce than fronts now.
People feel themselves in their faith, and so tightly that you cannot free them.
Not even the truth will free them.
And listen, everyone is right to his opinion; even a right to think about progress.
But do you know what you are not right?
They are not right to their own facts. 'stop, they have not.
And I needed a while to find out.
About a decade ago, I wrote an article about "The new York" Vaccine.
And I was astonished to resist what is at the end of humanity's most effective action on health care.
I didn't know what I should do, so I did just what I always do, I wrote an article and drove on.
And soon I wrote an article about gm food.
The same thing, just greater.
People played insane.
So I also wrote an article, and I couldn't understand why the people thought that this would be "Frankenfood," Why they believed that molecules were to postpone some sort of random, rather than an
But they know what I do. I wrote the articles, I continued to do.
I think I am a journalist.
We tap, we are rich, we are eating, that is okay.
But this article made me, and I couldn't know why, after all, I found it out.
And that is because these fanatics who made me insane were no fanatics at all.
These were careful people, educated people, decent people.
They were just like people in this area.
And that deepened me so...
But then I thought, you know what we are honest:
We have reached a point where we do not have the same relationship to progress as it once did.
We are talking about it.
We are talking about "Progress."
Okay, there are reasons, and I think we know which reasons are.
We have confidence in institutions, authority, and sometimes lost science, and there is no reason why it should not be so.
They can simply name a few names and people will understand.
Chernobyl, Bhopal, the challenger, Vioxx, weapons of mass destruction, the us presidential election 2000.
I mean you know you can choose your own list.
There are questions and problems with people we believed that they were always right. So they are skeptical.
Imagine asking them the evidence, they demand evidence.
Take nothing as a result.
But there is now: if they have to get the evidence, we are not well.
And I can say this for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear as I have never seen it, and I will never see it again.
Roughly 12 years ago, a story was published, a terrible history that brought together the virtual muscular epidemic with massacres, mumps, and Roman vaccine.
Very frightening.
Even as studies were conducted in order to see whether the agreed.
Homegrown studies should be conducted; this is a serious matter.
The data came in.
The data came from the us, from England, from Sweden, Canada, and they were all the same, no correlation, no connection.
It doesn't make a difference; it makes no difference because we believe in anecdotes, we believe what we see what we think we can think about what makes us feel real.
We do not believe in a set of documents of a government that gives us data, and I understand that, I think we all do.
But do you know what?
The result was catastrophic.
Catastrophic because of this fact: the us is one of the world's only countries in which immunization is declining.
This is scandalous, and we should be ashamed.
It is terrible.
What happened is that we could do so.
Now I understand that.
For does someone have measles?
Does one in the audience ever see someone dying from measles?
Not very often has happened.
Hasn't happened in this country at all, but 160,000 times in the world last year.
These are many deaths by measles, 20 per hour.
But, because this hasn't happened, we can crowd out it, and people like piled McCarthy can run around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like Mary and Larry king live.
And they can do so because they do not link the cause and correlation.
They do not understand that these things seem equal, but almost never the same.
And that is something we need to learn, very quickly.
This type was a hero, Hillary Salk.
He freed us from one of the worst scourges of humanity.
No fear, no quale, child paralysis, puff disappeared.
The type in the middle does not so much.
He means Paul offshore it.
He has just developed a few other people with a rotaviral vaccine.
He can save the lives of 400- 500,000 children per year in developing countries.
Quite good, not?
Now, that is good, except that Paul is running and talking about vaccines, and says how valuable they are, and that people should simply stop crying.
And he actually says that.
So Paul is a terrorist.
If Paul speaks in a public hearing, he cannot talk without armed guards.
He gets back home because people like to tell him that they know where his children go to school.
And why? Because Paul made a vaccine.
I don't need this, but vaccines are essential.
If they continue, disease is returning, terrible diseases, and that is what is happening.
We now have measles in this country.
And that will be worse, and relatively soon children will die from it, because that is only a matter of numbers.
And they will not only die of measles.
What about polio? Do we. Why not?
A commissioner of me wrote a few weeks ago, and I believe I am a bit too step.
No one has said that ever.
She would not vaccinate her child against polio.
F.
Why? Because we have no child paralysis, and do you know what?
We had no paralysis in this country yesterday.
Today, I don't know, perhaps someone in Lagos's days flying into a plane and is flying to Los Angeles, at the moment he is Ohio.
And, in a few hours, he ends a car, and he comes to long beach, and he will visit one of this fantasy TED dinner today.
And he does not know that he is infected with a crippling disease, and we don't know it, because the world is now working.
This is the planet on which we live, not as if it is not.
We love to contain ourselves in lies. We love that.
Have they all taken their vitamin ine tomorrow?
Echina acea, a small antioxidantium that helps them to leapfrog.
I know they have done that because half of Americans make it every day.
They take that stuff, and they take alternative remedies, and it does not make a difference as often we find out that they are useless.
The data consistently show this.
They are worsening their athens. They almost never do.
That is okay, they want to pay $28 billion for the dark animal.
I disagree with you.
Dark.
Why are we doing so? Why do we?
Now, I think I understand – we hate the pharmaceutical industry.
We hate too strong government; we have no confidence in the system.
And we should not. Our health-care system is mies.
It is cruel to millions of people.
It is truly cold and southeonizing itself that can afford.
So we run away, and where are we going?
We run into the poor of the bonus industry.
That is super. I love the bonus industry.
But they know that this is really a serious matter, because the stuff is dung, and we spend billions of dollars.
And I have all kinds of small props here.
Kone of them – reversed, echinacea, fraud, acai, as I don't know what it is, but we spend billions of dollars for it.
And do you know what? When I say, people cry me and say, "What does you care? Let people do what you want.
They feel good. "
And do you know what? You are wrong.
Because I don't care about whether it is the health minister who says, "Clarification, I will not accept the evidence of my experts to screening," Or some cancer quack who wants to treat his patients with kaffe-entry inputs.
When they move on this path where faith and magic substitute evidence and science, they arrive at a place where they do not want to be.
They enter Thabo Mbeki in South Africa.
He brought 400,000 of his people, because he insisted that red securities are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs we know that they can curtail the course of AIDS.
Hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is plagued worse than any other disease.
Don't ask me that these things have no consequences.
They always have.
Now, the most looming epidemic in which we are currently in is this absurd struggle between advocates of gm foods and the bio-elite.
This is an idiotic debate. It must stop.
It is a debate about words about metaphors.
That is ideology, not science.
All we eat was changed by the people, every branch of peterie, silie, every rose kohl.
You know, there was no mandarins in the Paradise.
There were no cantalouts.
There were no Christmas trees. We have done all this.
We have made it last 11,000 years.
And some of this worked, and some have not.
We have become what has not worked.
Now we can be more accurate, and there are risks, but we can do something like vitamin a in rice, and the stuff can help millions of people long their lives.
Don't want them?
I need to say that I don't understand.
We reject gm food.
Why do we do so?
Now what I hear is: too many chemicals, pesticides, monoculture, we don't want huge fields with one thing that is wrong.
We do not want firms to patently live.
We do not want firms to have seeds.
And do you know what my answer to all of this?
Yes, they are right. We fix that.
True, we have huge nutritious problems, but that is not science.
This has nothing to do with science.
It is right, morality, patents.
They know that science is not a firm.
It is not a country.
It is not even an idea; it is a process.
It is a process, and sometimes it does not work, but the idea that we should not allow science to do their work because we fear is a truly impasse, and it keeps millions of people from the flourishing.
If you know, over the next 50 years, we will need to grow 70% more food than at the moment. 70%.
This investment in Africa over the last 30 years.
Shameful.
They need that, and we do not give them.
And why? Gm foods
We don't want to encourage people to eat this red box, such as maniok.
Maniok, something a half-billion people eat.
For example, it is like a potatoes.
It is only a bundle of calories. It is mies.
It has no nutrients, it has no protein, and scientists are building all this right.
And then people could not be blind to the food
They would not starve, and do they know what?
That would be nice. It would not be Chez Panisse, but it would be nice.
All I can say about this: why do we fight this?
I think we ask: why do we fight this?
Because we don't want to postpone genes?
It is not about cracking genes; it is not about chemicals.
It is not about our ridiculous passion for hormones, our insistence on greater food, better food, uniquely food.
This is not about rice crisis, it is about getting people alive, and it will be high time to understand what this means.
For you know what?
If we don't do so if we continue to make ourselves guilty of something we think we don't want to be guilty, high-tech colonialism.
There is no other description of what happens here.
It is self-addictive, it is ugly; it is not our worthy, and we must really stop it.
So, after this incredibly glamorous conversation, you might want to say, "Do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and the future?"
In any case, I do.
At the moment, it is in the present, but we have an incredible opportunity.
We can put this time machine on everything we want.
We can move them where we want to move them, and we will move them to where we want.
We must lead these conversations, and we must think, but if we rise into the time machine, and we will be happy to have done that.
I know that we can, and as far as it comes to me, what the world needs now.
Thank you.
Thank you.
For some time, I have been interested in the benign effect, and it may seem odd that a magician want to do so, consider it as I think, as "A delusion that will be a bit fairer if someone believes in it."
In other words, sugar pills have shown a measurable impact in some studies, the bonus effect, and only because the person thinks what happens to them is a pharmaceutical or a kind of … in painful management, for example, there is only if the patient believes that the body is effective enough.
It will be a delusion because someone perceives it.
To understand each other, I now want to show a fundamental, very simple magic trick.
And I will show them how he works, which is a trick that is at least in every magic book for children since the 1950's.
I have learned him from the Cub Scout of the magic crackdown in the 1970's.
I will do it for them and then explain it.
And then I will explain why I explain it.
So, you see what happens.
The knife they can study; my hand that they can examine.
I would simply keep the knife in my faust.
I am wrong with my sle
And, in order to ensure that nothing disappears into my slew or out of his outcome, I would simply push my bashers together.
In this way, they can see that there is no time to move anywhere as long as I object, nothing can come into my slew.
And the goal is straightforward.
I will open my hand, and, one hopes, if everything goes well, the knife will be stuck with my mere physical magnetism.
Indeed, it is so clear that I can shake it without the knife falling down.
Nothing goes into my slew or gets out of trickles, and they can examine everything.
Ta-da!
Now that is a trick I often teach small children who are interested in magic making, because it can learn much about deception when one looks more accurate, even though it is a very easy trick.
Many of them probably know this trick here in the room.
He works like this:
I hold the knife in my hand.
I say that I close my move to ensure that nothing disappears in my slew or exit, and that is a lie.
The reason why I am sticking to my move is that it is the real secret of the illusion.
At the moment, where I turn my hand away from them so that they can backstop, this finger is moving my time finger, just from where he was, in a position where he used so.
Amazing trick?
There is someone who had no childhood.
So it is here.
And when I turn around, the finger changes its position.
And now one might talk about why it is a delusion that it is not true that it is just three fingers at the bottom: the sense and the way it processes information, not one in one, two, three, but as a group.
But that is not the point here, and then I open my hand.
Of course, it will be stuck there, but not by my body's magnetic credentials, but by a trick that is now there.
And when I close my hand, the same thing that I turn back is hidden by this movement is hidden that the finger is back.
I take this hand, and here is the knife.
This trick can be made for their friends and neighbors. Thank you.
Now what does this have to do with the reasonable effect?
A year or so, I read a study that really left me right.
I am not a doctor or researchers, so I was an astounding cause for me.
It turns out that if they offer a placebo in the form of a white pill, in the form of an aspirinpills, this is simply a round of white pill that has a specific measure.
But if you administer the form in which you administer the placebo, change in a smaller pill, and you color blue, and shape a letter on it, it is actually measured more effectively.
And that, though none of them are just sugar pills.
But a white pill is not as good as a blue pill.
What?
But it turns out that it is not all.
When they take caps, each form is even more effective than pills.
A color card, which is at an end, and on the other red, is better than a white patch.
Dosage also plays a role.
A pill twice a day is not as good as three pills – I cannot now remember the precise statistics.
The crucial but is...
… that dopunations also play a role.
And the form plays a role.
And if one wants to have the ultimate long-term impact, one must take a needle.
Right? An injection of an ineffective - a couple of milliliter of an ineffective substance that you injected into a patient.
This creates a very strong picture, much more than a white pill.
This chart is really... I will show you another time when we have a project.
So the fact is that the white pill does not work as well as the blue pill that does not work as well as a return that does not work as well as the needle.
And none of this has any truly pharmaceutical capacity; it is only our belief in which we can achieve a stronger impact.
I wanted to know whether I could use this idea for a magic trick.
I take something that is obvious, and let it look real.
We know from the study that one must take a needle if it is to go.
This is an 18 centimeters long hutneedle; it is very high, and I would first sterilize them a bit.
This is really my meat. It is not a dam of meat produced.
This is my skin. This is not a specialized effect from Hollywood.
I will now stand this needle in my skin and drive through them until they leave the other side.
If you are bad - when you fall slightly in ohnpower - I have led the few friends last night in the hotel room, and some people I don't know, and a woman has become almost oinpowerful.
So I propose that when you get swiftly, you look away for the next 30 seconds, or, you know what I will backstop the first homes.
They can see the same, but they can also see away if they want.
So, here is where my meat starts, at the bottom of my arms, I would simply dismiss a small one.
Do I feel sorry about it?
And now just a little bit of my skin and on the other side.
Now we are in the same situation that we had at the measurement trick.
Roughly.
But now they cannot count my fingers, or?
So I will show them, one, two, three, four, five.
Now, yes.
I know what people think when they see this.
They say, "Okay, it is certainly not so cornered, and even the skin in order to have us for a few minutes."
Now I will show it.
What does this look like? Pretty well.
Yes, I know.
And people backstop saying, "Okay. I didn't really see it."
The people in the side are now coming in.
Let me show it close.
This is my skin. This is not a specialized effect from Hollywood.
That is my meat, and I can turn around.
If I get sick, you look out, don't look.
The people in the back or who later see the video will say, "Well, that looks quite impressive, but if it were real, he would see it, there is a hole and there if it really were real, it would be bloody."
Okay, let me squeeze a little blood for them.
Yes, it is.
Normally, I would take the needle now.
I would make my poor, and show them that there are no wounds.
But I think, in this framework, and with the intention to make genuine of deception, I will simply make the needle in there and go the stage.
We will face a few times in the next few days.
I hope they are happy. Thank you.
Everyone is talking about happiness nowadays.
I have made some people the number of books published with "Happiness" In the last five years, giving them about 40, and there was much more.
There is a huge wave of interest among researchers.
There are much congratulation coaching.
Everyone would like to make people happier.
But, despite all of this stream of work, there are several cognitive falls that make it almost impossible to think of happiness.
And my presentation today will be mainly determined by these cognitive actions.
That is true for laia who think about their own happiness, and it is true for scientists who think about happiness because it turns out that we are just as confusing as everyone else.
The first of these falls is a reluctance to admit complexity.
It turns out that the word is simply not a useful word, because we apply it to too many different things.
I think there is a certain meaning to which we could limit it, but the big and whole is something we need to give up, and we will need to assume the complicated view of what well-being is.
The second trap is a confusion of experience and memory: indeed, it is between being happy in his life and happy about his life or happy with his life.
And these are two very different concepts, and both have been clashed in the idea of happiness.
And the third is the concentration illusion, and that is the unhappy fact that we cannot think about a fact that we can't affect wellbeing without distorting its
I think that is a real cognitive trap.
There is simply no way to get it right.
Now I would like to start with one example of someone who had a new and-answer session after my lectures that reported a story. [sinking... He said he had heard a sinconia, and it was absolutely ruling music, and at the end of the meeting there was a horrific noise.
And then he added, really quite emotional, that has ruined the entire experience.
But it did not.
What it ruined was memories of experience.
He had experience.
He had had 20 minutes of ruling.
They were not because he loved with a memory; the memory was ruined, and the memory was all he had to keep.
What really tells us is that we are thinking about ourselves and other people, in terms of two species of themselves.
There is a life of itself living in the present and knows the present capable of restoring the past, but it is basically just the present.
It is the living self that the doctor prits – you know when the doctor asks, "Does it hurt if I put it here?"
And then there is a reminiscent of itself, and the reminiscent itself is the one that includes and maintains the history of our life, and it is that the doctor speaks by asking the question, "How have they felt lately?"
Or, "How was its trip to Albania?" or so.
These are two very different units that live and the memory itself, and the two are part of the term of happiness.
Now the memory itself is a storyteller.
And this really starts with a fundamental response to our memories – beginning immediately.
We do not only tell stories when we do so to tell stories.
Our memory tells us stories, which means what we can keep our experiences is a story.
And let them start with an example.
There is an old study.
These are real patients who undertake a painful procedure.
I will not go into the details. It is no longer painful nowadays, but it was painful when this study was conducted in the 1990's.
They were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds.
Here are two patients. They are their records.
And they are asked, "Who suffered more?"
And that is a very simple question.
Patient B clearly suffered more, and his reflection was longer, and every minute of pain that the patient had a patient B and more.
But there is another question: "How much did these patients think they suffered?"
Here is a surprise:
And the surprise is that the patient a much worse reminder of the darmlin was a patient B.
The stories of the reflected were different, and because a very critical part of history is how it ends.
None of these stories is very constructive or great – but one of them is clear ….
But one of them is far worse than the others.
And, worse, where the pain was at the end of its peak, it is a bad story.
What do we know?
Because we asked these people after their darmreflection, and much later, "How bad was the whole thing?"
And it was much worse for a than for B in memories.
Now, this is a direct conflict between the world itself and the memory itself.
Clearly, from the surviving self, B had a worse time.
Now what could be done with the patient a, and we have done clinical experiments, and it has been made, and it works to prolong the patient's dara by simply pushing the hose into the hose without too much
That will cause the patient to suffer, but only a bit less than before.
And if you make this for a few minutes, you will have the survival of the patient a is worse off, and you have caused the patient's memory to be much better off, because now
What is driving a story?
And that is true of the stories that memory tells us, and there is also the stories we invent
As a story emerges, breakthroughs, significant moments, and end.
The end is very, very important, and in this case the dominated the end
Now living itself lives constantly.
It has moments of life, one after another.
And they ask: what happens to these moments?
And the answer is really simple. They are lost forever.
I mean, most moments of our life – and I have the one thing – you know that the psychological present is for about three seconds, and they know that there are approximately 600 million of them in a month, with roughly 600,000 of the most of them left no lane.
Most of them are entirely ignored by the memory itself.
And yet they somehow get the impression that they should count that what happened during these moments of inheritance is our lives
It is the limited resource that we consume during the world.
And, as we consume them, it is not the story that keeps the memory for us.
So we have the memory itself and the survivors themselves, and they are really quite different.
The biggest difference between them is how to deal with time.
From the perspective of the surviving itself when you have a vacation, and the second week is just as good as the first, the two-week vacation is twice the amount of a week vacation.
This does not work for the memory itself.
For the memory itself, a two-week vacation is hardly better than the weekly vacation, because there are no new memories added.
They have not changed history.
And, in this way, time is the critical variable that differentiates itself from a survival self, with little influence on this story.
Now the memory itself makes more than memory and telling stories.
It is, in fact, that makes decisions, because if you have a patient who had two darmreflection in two different surgeons, deciding what to vote, the one who chooses who is the memory that is less bad and the surgeon is chosen.
The dying itself has no voice in this election.
In fact, we do not choose between experiences. We choose between memories of experiences.
And even if we think of the future, we don't usually think of our future as experiences.
We think about our future as provided memories.
And, in fact, you can see that, you know, as a tyranny of the self, and you can think of the memory itself as one that, in a way, the experience that the survival itself does not need.
I have the impression that if we make vacations very often the case, which means that we take vacations on the services themselves.
And that is a bit hard to justify, I think.
I mean how much we feed our memories?
This is one of the explanations made for the dominance of the memory itself.
And when I ponder this, I think of a vacation that we made a few years ago in Antarctica, which was clearly the best vacation I had ever had, and I think relatively often in relation to how often I consider other vacation.
And I probably saved my memories of this three-week trip, I would say about 25 minutes for the last four years.
Now, if I had ever opened the file with 600 images, I had spent another hour.
Now, these are three weeks, and they are highest hours per year.
There seems to be unanimity.
Now I may be a bit extreme, you know how little appetites I have on memories of memories, but even if they make more of them, there is a real question. Why do we give memories so much weight to the weight we give?
So I want you to think about an thought experiment.
Imagine their next vacation, they know that, at the end of the vacation, all images will be destroyed, and they get an amnesty medicine so that they will remember nothing.
Now, would you choose the same vacation?
And if you choose another vacation, there is a conflict between your two species and you need to think about how you choose this conflict, and that is really not obvious at all, because if you think in the sense of time, you get an answer, and if you might think another answer.
Why we choose the vacation we choose is a problem that confronts us with an election between the two species of the self.
Now the two species of the self raise two terms of happiness.
Indeed, there are two concepts of happiness we can use, one per person.
So you can ask: how happy is the dying itself?
And then would they ask: how happy are the moments of life of the world itself?
And they are all – happiness for moments is a rather complicated process.
What are the emotions that can be measured?
And, by contrast, we are now able to get a fairly good idea from the successful self's happiness over time.
When they ask the happiness of the self, it is a very different matter.
This is not how happy a person lives.
It is like content or delighted the person to think about their lives.
Very different.
Anyone who is not different from these terms is the research of happiness, and I am a lot of researchers about wellbeing that has long deepened research for happiness.
The distinction between the survival's happiness and the satisfaction of the self has been recognized in recent years, and now the two are seeking to measure the two.
The Gallup organization has a global survey, with more than a half-million people wondering what they think about their lives and about their experiences, and there have been other efforts in the direction.
In recent years, we have begun to learn about the two species'happiness.
And the main lesson we believe is that they are truly different.
They can know how satisfied someone is with his life, and that teaches them not much about how happy he lives and vice versa.
Only to tell you a perception of the correlation that correlation is about .5.
What this means is that if you were to hit someone and you would say, oh, his father is a two-meter man, how much would you know about its size?
Now they would know something about its size, but there is much uncertainty.
They have so much uncertainty.
If I tell you that someone has been eight on a scale of ten, they have much uncertainty about how happy he is with his own people.
So the correlation is small.
We know something about what the happiness self's happiness happiness happiness
We know that money is very important, goals are very important.
We know that happiness is mainly meant to be satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like.
There are other pleasure, but that is dominant.
So, if they want to maximize the happiness of the two species themselves, they will do very different things at the end.
The conclusion of what I said here is that we should not really imagine happiness as a substitute for well-being.
It is a completely different term.
Now, quite short, another reason we cannot think clearly about happiness is that we do not look at the same thing when we think about life and if we actually live.
So, if you ask the simple question of how happy people in California, you will not get the correct answer.
If you think this question, you think that people in California must be happier if you say, live in Ohio.
And what happens when you think about the lives of California, think about the difference between California and other places, and that difference is, say, climate.
Now it turns out that climate is not very important for living itself, and it is not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are.
But now, because the successor itself is responsible, some people may end up moving to California.
And it is interesting to pursue what happens to people who draw to California in the hope of becoming happier.
Now their own life will not be happier.
We know that.
But one thing will happen. They will think that they are happier, because when they think about it, they will be reminded of how dreadful weather was in Ohio, and they will feel that they made the right decision.
It is very difficult to think about well-being, and I hope that I have taught you a perception of how difficult it is.
Thank you.
Thank you. I have a question to you.
Thank you.
Now, when we convened a few weeks ago, they told me that there was a fairly interesting outcome from this Gallup poll.
Is this something they can share, because they have a few minutes left?
Daniel Kahneman: safe.
I think the most interesting outcome that we found in the Gallup poll is a number we had absolutely not expected to find.
We found this in terms of the happiness of the world itself.
When we looked at how feelings of income vary.
And it turns out that under an income of $60,000 per year, for Americans, and that is a very large sample of Americans, roughly 600,000, but it is a great representative sample of $600,000 a year.
60,000.
Dk – 60,000 60,000.
60,000 dollars in year are unhappy, and they become increasingly unhappier, the poorer they become.
We get a absolutely flat line.
I think I have rarely seen so flat lines.
What happens is obvious that money does not provide an experience of luck, but lack of money procured and we can very clearly measure this plight.
In the sense of the other itself, the memory itself, they get another story.
The more money you earn, the more you earn.
This is not true of emotions.
But Danny, throughout America's quest for life, freedom, the quest for bliss.
If people take this fund seriously, I mean that it seems to turn everything we believe, for example, about tax policy and so on.
Is there a chance that politicians would generally take a fund like the seriousness and make policies based on it?
Dk – you know, I believe that there is credit for the role of good research in politics.
Recognition will be slow in the United states, not a question, but it is happening in the United kingdom, and it is happening in other countries.
People are recognizing that they should think of happiness if they think about politics.
It will take a while, and people will discuss whether they want to explore empirical luck or whether they want to explore lifestyle assessments, so we will have to do so soon.
How happiness can be improved greatly depends on how they think and whether they think about the memory themselves, or whether they think of the dying themselves.
This will affect politics, I think, in the coming years.
In the United states, one emphasizes the experience of the population.
This will, I think, be part of the national statistics over the next one or two decades.
Now, it seems to me, this issue, or should at least be the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years.
Thanks to the invention of behavioral economics.
Thank you, Danny Kahneman.
I am Jane McGonigal. I design video games.
I have been developing online for 10 years, and my goal for the next decade is just as easy to make the world safer in reality as to save in online games.
I have a plan for this. I want to persuade more people, including everyone to spend more time with the games of larger and more.
Today, we spend 3 billion hours per week playing online.
Some of them may think, "This is a lot of time for games."
Perhaps too much time, given how many problems we urgently have in the real world.
In fact, my research at the institute for the future is precisely the opposite.
Three billion hours per week are not nearly enough to solve the world's most pressing problems.
Indeed, I am convinced that if we want to survive the next century on the planet, we must dramatically increase this time.
I calculated that the time needed is 21 billion hours per week.
This may seem a bit straightforward first, so I reexamine it: if we want to solve problems like hunger, poverty, climate change, global conflict, and obesity, I think we must try to play online games for at least 21 billion per week by the end of the next decade.
No, I really mean it.
Why? This picture describes quite exactly why I believe that games are so essential for the survival of the human species in the future.
This is a portrait of the Australian Toledano.
He wanted to capture the feelings of play, so he has built a camera against the players.
This is one of the classic words in play.
If you are no players, some of the nuances in this picture may be discouraged.
They are likely to see this sense of urgency, a bit of fear, but also the first concentration, deeply deepening into solving a tough problem.
If they play, they see some nuances that are up and the mouth are a sign of optimism. The eyes are surprising.
This is a player who is on the verge of a so-called epic victory.
Oh, you know that. OK. So we have some players here.
An epic victory is an outcome that is so highly positive that they didn't know that it was possible at all.
It was almost beyond imagination.
And when they do, they are shocked that they are actually too viable, which is an epic victory.
This player is on the verge of an epic victory.
And that is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solving around the world when we address the hurdles of the next century, the face of those who face all odds on the brink of an epic victory.
Unfortunately, we are more likely to see this face in real life if we address difficult problems.
I refer to it as "In life I am a bad" Face, and, indeed, my face, do you see? Yes?
I am "Living in life I am a bad" Face.
This is a graffiti in my former home to Berkeley, California, where I studied why we are better playing in real life than in my graduate
That is a problem that many players have.
We think that we are not as good as in reality.
And I do not only mean less successful, even though that belongs.
We reach more worlds. I mean something important to do, inspired by collaboration.
If we are in a game world, I believe that many of us turn into our best version, are ready for aid at any time and immediately prepared to resolve the problem as long as necessary to try it once again.
And, in reality, when we fail when we meet obstacles, we often feel different.
We feel overwhelmed. We feel defeated. We feel threatened, perhaps depressed, frustrated, or cynical.
We never have these feelings when we play, there are simply not to play.
And that is what I wanted to examine as a graduate student.
Why is it impossible to think that you could not just achieve everything?
How can we shift these feelings from play into reality?
So I watched as world of Tunisia, which provides the ideal environment for a common problem.
And I found some things that make the epic victories online worlds so possible.
So, first when they enter one of these online games, especially in world of Tunisia, there are a lot of different characters willing to trust them a world general mission, immediately.
But not only any mission, but a mission that fits perfectly with its current level?
So they do.
They never get a task they cannot solve.
But always at the brink of their skills, they need to make their careers, but there is no unemployment in world of frost.
You don't sit around and rounds; there is always something important to do.
And there are often staff.
Where they go, hundreds of thousands of people working with them to complete their epic mission.
We don't have that easy in real life, this sense that employees are willing to be willing in a fingerprints.
There is also this epic history, this inspiring history, why we are and what we have to do.
Then we get all this positive feedback.
They have certainly heard of "High" And "+ 1 strength" Or "+ 1 intelligence."
This term of feedback is not in real life.
If I leave this stage, I have no: + 1 speak, and + 1 insane idea, + 20 lunches.
I don't get this feedback in the real life.
So, the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of Tunisia is that it is so satisfactory at any time at the brink of an epic victory that we prefer to spend our entire game.
They are simply better than reality.
Until now, all world of Warcraft players combined with 5.93 million years to solve the virtual problems of Azeroth.
This is not necessarily a bad thing.
It may sound evil.
But, to see it in the context: 5.93 million years ago, our first prime minister began to go on.
So the first exciting primacy.
OK, so, when we talk about how much time we spend with games, that makes it only sense when the time regards the magnitude of human development, which is extraordinary.
But it is also appropriate, because it turns out that by using it all time, we actually change what we are capable of doing as humans.
We are becoming more common, warm.
That is the truth. I believe it.
Consider this interesting statistic recently published by a researchers at Carnegie Mellon university: today's average young people are spent 10,000 hours playing online to 21 hours.
So, 10,000 hours are an extremely interesting number for 2 reasons:
For starters, for children in the us, 10.80 hours are the precise rate they spend in school, from class to the high school - if you never lack.
So we have an entire parallel education path to which young people learn as much as it means being a good player, like anything else they learn in school.
And perhaps some of them have read the new book by Malcolm carson, "Overshoot".
So they know his theory of success, the theory of the success of 10,000 hours.
It is based on the great science of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours working with the arduous study of any theme to the twenty-first year, we will confront it.
We will be doing so well as the world's most important people.
So what we have here is a full generation of young people who are master players.
So the big question is: "What are players masterful?"
For if we could figure out that, we would have an unprecedented human potential.
So many people are in the world that spend at least one hour per day with online.
These are our master players. 500 million people who are exceptionally well "Something."
And, over the next decade, we have another billion players that are exceptionally good in whatever.
If you have not heard it,
The game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks, rather than broadband Internet players around the world, particularly in India, China, Brazil, can play online.
One expects an additional billion players over the next decade.
For this, we have 1.5 billion players.
So I started thinking about what it is to address these games.
Here, the 4 things I found. First: urgency.
OK, imagine how extreme self-motivated.
Urgency of optimism is the desire to do something immediately to confront a hurdle, together with the belief that we have founded hope for success.
Players always believe that an epic victory is possible, and that it is always worth trying to do so.
There are no players.
Players are masters of poet social nets.
There is a lot of interesting research that we may show more people after playing with them, even if they defeated us.
The reason is that it requires a lot of confidence to play a game with someone.
We trust that someone is spending time with us that the rules are enacted that we have the same goal and remain at the end of the game.
Thus, playing together enables the growth of ties, trust, and with each other.
As a result, we build stronger social relationships.
Honest productivity is great!
You know, there is one reason why the average word of Warcraft players play 22 hours per week, as a part-time job.
The reason is that if we play, we are actually happier in working hard than if we relax or do nothing.
We know that as human beings, we work optimal if we do hard, important work.
And players are always ready to work hard if they get the right task.
And, ultimately, epic importance.
Players love to become part of the most awe of continental missions.
There is a background formation in order to put the right; they certainly know all Wikipedia, the world's biggest vienna.
The world's second-largest vienna, with nearly 80,000 contributions, is the world of Tunisia vienna.
Five million people use it every month.
They have combined more information about world of Tunisia on the Internet than any other issue in every other vienna.
They create an epic story.
They create an epic source of knowledge about the world of Tunisia.
OK, so these are four superforces leading to a single result, players are super-powerful, hopeful individuals.
They are people who believe that they can change as a single world.
And the only problem is that they believe that they can change virtual worlds, but not real.
That is the problem I have to resolve.
Edward castrongman is a scholar.
His work is brilliant. He examined why people spend so much time, energy, and money in online worlds.
And he says, "We will see no less than a mass emigration in virtual worlds and online space."
And that of an economist, so it makes sense.
He says...
Not as I... I develop, I am somewhat exuberant.
So he says that this makes sense, because players can achieve more than in real life in online worlds.
They can create stronger social ties than in real life; they get more feedback and rewards playing in real life than in real life.
So he says, it is entirely logical that players spend more time in the virtual world than in real terms.
I agree only time that makes sense.
But it is certainly not an optimal situation.
We must start transforming the real world into a game.
My inspiration comes from an event that lies 2,500 years.
There are these anti-cube, coalarmed, and they know?
Prior to these amazing games controllers, there were mudder.
And that was the first of developed maneuvers.
And if you are familiar with the works of the old Greek historian Herodotus, you may know this story. History about how and why games were invented.
Herodotus games were invented, more accurately, in the kingdom of lyang during a famine.
There was such a great famine that the king of lydin decided to an mad idea.
People suffered. People struggled.
It was an extreme situation. It needed an extreme solution.
So they invented, according to Herodotus, the dignified game, and agreed a national strategy; one day you would play food.
And they would be so deepen in the dignified game, as games are so fascinating and surround us with satisfactory, blighted productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat.
And then, the next day, you would play, and the next day you would eat.
And, according to Herodotus, they survived this famine for 18 years by eating on a day and playing the next.
Likewise, I think we are playing a games today.
We are playing a game to escape the suffering of the real world.
We have a games to avoid everything that works in the real world is not satisfactory, and we are getting out of what we need.
But this does not need to be the end.
This is exciting.
According to Herodotus, famine was not better off after 18 years, so the king decided to set a last dignified game.
They shared the kingdom in two salves.
They played a worthy game, and winners were allowed to break up an epic adventure.
They left lyang and moved to search for a new home, leaving just as many people back how food was alive and sought to survive with the rest of a area where they could flourish
That sounds crazy, or?
But recent DNA evidence shows that the ric reich later formed the Roman Empire, which have the same DNA as the old lydier.
So scientists recently concluded that Herodotus's' lunacy history is true.
And geologists found evidence of a global slowdown that lasted nearly 20 years, which could explain the famine.
So this insane history could vote.
Perhaps they actually saved their people by fleeing to games for 18 years, and then had this environment, and learned so much about the games that they saved the entire civilization.
So we can.
We have played since 1994.
This was the first policy piel in the world of Warcraft series, which was 16 years ago.
They played 18 years of dignified games, we have been playing field for 16 years.
I predict that we are prepared for our own epic game.
So they sent half of their civilization to search for a new world, so I take my 21 billion hours per week.
We should be told that half of us spend an hour per day until we solved the real world's problems.
I know you will ask, "How do we address the real world's problems?" I have devoted my work to the institute for the future in recent years.
We have this banner in our apartment in Palo Alto, depressing how to understand the future.
We do not want to try to say the future before.
What we want is to create the future.
We want to imagine the best possible outcome, and then people to implement this idea into reality.
We imagine epic victories and give people the ways to achieve them.
I show you just three games I have designed to try to give people epic victories in their own future.
This is "World without oil."
The game is in 2007.
It is an online game in which it must overcome oil shortages.
The oil shortages are invented, but we have enough online content to be realistic for them, and they actually live without oil, so when they report on the game, they tell us where they live, and then get news movies in real time that don't affect them.
We have tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007, and we have been accompanied by them over the last three years.
And I can tell you that it was a changing experience.
No one wants to change his life because it is good for the environment, or because we should.
But when they are in an epic adventure and said, "We are running out of oil."
This is an intriguing adventure on which one goes.
Find out how they would survive; most of our players have maintained habits at stake.
So we have put a bigger target for the next world's next game than just oil scarcity.
We developed the game "Super-struct" At the institute for the future.
What is the calculation of a supercomputers is that people have only 23 years on the planet.
This superficial means "Global sacrifice - sensitivization system,
The call for players to report, we have shaped almost like a "Jersey heighter" Film.
They know Jerry brucker films, where there is the "Dream-team," They have the astronauts that scientists, the ex-masters, and only together can they save the world.
But in our game, rather than just 5 people, we say, everyone is in the dream-team, and it is our task of creating the future for energy, food, health, security, and the future of social justice.
8,000 players played the game 8 weeks.
They found 500 incredibly creative solutions they can reread when they are "Super-struct."
And the last game we get out on March 3. It is a game in cooperation with the world bank.
If you complete the game, you get the world bank's award "Social transformation" In 2010.
We work with universities across sub-Saharan Africa and store them to transform social.
We have a comic: we have "High" For regional understanding of knowledge interconnectedness, sustainability, vision, and ingenuity.
I want to invite you all to share this game with young people everywhere in the world, especially in development areas that benefit from envising their own social ventures to save the world.
I come to the end.
I want to ask them something.
What do you think happens next?
We have all these amazing players, we have games that show us what we can do, but we have not saved the real world.
I hope that you agree to me that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life, and that games have a major meaning for change.
We have all these super-forces, hapless productivity, the ability to build close social grids, urgent optimism, and the desire for epic importance.
I truly hope that we play important games to survive this planet another century.
And I hope they will play and play with me.
If I look forward in the next decade, I am sure of two things: we can create any possible future, and that we can play all possible games.
So I say, let the world changing games start!
Thank you.
I would like to tell you something I was struck by a few months ago in writing an article for Italian Wired.
I have always been willing to fool my synonym-lexicon, but I was already dealing with the textile process, and I fell to my life, which really impedes the word.
I read the board.
"Impeded, 'adjective:" Stunned, undeterred, defaulted, wounded, wounded, weighed down, deteriorating lost, weakened, impotent cadres, crippled, impotent cageil, humiliating, and mired age.
Antonyme: healthy, strong, powerful, powerful. "
I read this list of a friend according to prerogatives, and I had to laugh, but I was so ridiculous, "And I could no longer talk, and had to stop reading, and to reap me after this overlooked tide and related emotional shock.
Of course, this was a franco-german, old synonym-lexicon. I simply thought that issuing must be quite old.
But, in fact, it was an issue on the early 1980's, when I started in primary school, beginning to build my self-image outside my family environment, including with other children and the rest of the world around me.
And god is not used synonym-lelexicon then.
If I were to take this record seriously, I would be born in a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose lives can be positive in any way, but today I will be celebrated for the chances and adventure I witnessed.
So I immediately called on the 2009 online issue and expects that I have a spree contribution.
Here is the current version of this effort.
It is not much better.
In particular, the last two words divide me under "Near onyms" Completely "And" Healthy. "
But it is not just the words.
What we think about the people we describe with these words.
It is the values that are in these words, and how we construct these values.
Our language affects our thinking, and how we see the world and people around us.
Many aging societies, including the Greeks and the Romans, have genuinely believed that the language of a curse has a large force, because what one calls for is also manifested.
So what do we really want – a disabled person or a powerful people?
Just to call a person eight to a child alone, it could be enough to limit them and outweigh them.
Wouldn't it be more beautiful to open doors?
One person opening for my doors was my child doctor at Wilmington's institute at Wilmington.
He means Dr. Pizzutillo, an italo American whose name can think that most Americans couldn't accurately do so. So he was called Dr. P..
And Dr. P. Has always been very colorful, and was simply created for children's work.
I found the time I spent in this hospital simply – to my physiotherapy.
I have seemed to repeat some of these thick, elastic bmodification – in different colors – who know them to build my D muscles, and I have hated these lines more than anything else. I hate them. I hated them.
And imagine that I even acted as a five-year child with Dr. P., trying to stop the exercises, rather than without success.
And one day, he watched me in one of my exercises – these exercises were simply fatidy and resentlessly – and he said to me, "Richard, Hillary carson, you are so strong, powerful, and young girls, you will be able to tear off one of these lines
And if you make it, I give you a hundred dollars. "
That was, of course, a simple trick from Dr. P. To make the exercises I didn't want to do, with the prospect that the richest five-year girl in the health station in the second stock, but he actually brought me to see my daily mismatch with new eyes.
And I wonder today how much his vision of me has shaped my image as a young and young girl, and I could imagine myself as a nature of strong, powerful, and attorque.
This is just one example of many, as adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child.
But, as the already cited examples of synonym-dictionary books, our language cannot imagine what we would all wish: allow each individual to see themselves as a powerful people.
Our language lags behind the social changes caused by technological change in many cases.
Of course, from the medical standpoint, one can say that my feet, the laser-surgery for the foreseeable disability, knieguided from scratch and artificial bearers for aging bodies that allow people to use all of their options and move beyond the limits that they naturally have turned out to their own fate.
So perhaps this technological change illustrates more clearly than ever that there has always been another truth: every person in society can give something very special and very powerful, and that human ability to adapt is our greatest plus.
Adapting human ability - this is an interesting story, because people always ask me to tell me how I go with widries and I will acknowledge them: this sentence has never fit for me, and I always feel very uneasy about asking people to answer and why I think gradually.
This paper depends on dealing with the idea that success or happiness depends on addressing a challenge without being shaped by the associated experience, as if my life was so successful, because I could see the possible fall of a life with a patient extension, or how always people perceive me with disabilities.
But the truth is that we change. Of course, we are shaped by the challenge, whether physically, emotional, or even both.
And I predict that this is good.
Widries are not an obstacle that we must shift to curves to get better off our lives.
Widries are simply among our lives.
And I tend to see the swings as my shadow.
Sometimes merke, I believe that he is very present, sometimes he is little to see, but he is constantly in me.
And I don't want to put down the impact, or the severity of a person's
There are differences in life and challenges, and only all of them are happening, and each person is different, but the question is not whether we are getting clear or not, but how we get it.
So we are not only responsible for preserving the people we love to keep destiny, but also to prepare them well.
And we do not like our children when we feel that they cannot adapt.
Two things must be clear: to be a medical fact, amputated, and the social view of whether I am impede or not.
And, to be honest, the only real and lasting impairment that I had to divide is that the world always means that it can describe me with these definitions.
In our desire to protect people who are at the heart and tell them the cold, hard truth about their medical forecast, or even put a prediction on the quality of life they expect, we need to be careful that we don't put the groundwork for someone to actually impede.
Perhaps the current concept that looks like what is broken, and how we fix it for each individual to become more disability than pathology.
If we do not treat a human beings holistically, not all of its forces and opportunities, and acknowledge, in addition to the natural battle they may have to lead, another disease.
We have a people who is worth our society.
So we must look beyond the stalemate and focus on all of human possibilities.
Most importantly, there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great ideas.
We should not dismiss or deny these challengers, we should not try to avoid them, nor should we reverse them under the rug, but about recognizing the odds.
I may be more concerned about making it clear that we need to overcome the drift not necessarily, but that we are open to getting them to the vice, using them at the shrug to use a battle and perhaps even dance with it.
And perhaps we can make it a natural, unanimous, and useful to see us as a result of its presence.
This year, we celebrate the 200 birthday of Charles Darwin and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago, Darwin, in my eyes, pointed to something very human character.
I would rewrite it: not the strongest of his way, and not the smartest of his way, but the one that can best adapt.
Conflicts arise from creativity.
Not only from Darwin's work, we know that the ability of people to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to change through conflicts.
So, change, and adaptation are the greatest capacities of people.
And perhaps we know only about which wood we are carved if we are really tested.
Perhaps that is precisely the sense of emotions, a perception of the imf, a sense of our own force.
We can give ourselves something like this.
We can give risks a new meaning that goes beyond hard times.
Perhaps we can see adversaries as change.
Widries face a change that we have not yet adjusted.
I believe that the biggest damage we have inflicted on ourselves is to believe that we should be normal.
Honest - who is normal?
There is no normal.
There is the usual thing. But not ordinary, and would you really want to know these poor, gray person if they really existed?
I think rather than.
It would be good if we could exchange this pattern of normalcy against another of the possibility or strength to formulate it even a bit more dangerous, so we can release the forces of very many children, and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills to society.
Adoption has found that we have always called for people of our society: useful to be and contribute.
There is evidence that Neanderthals have borne older people and people with severe physical violations, perhaps because the life experience of these people was valuable to society:
They did not look at these people as broken and useless; they were treated as something special and valuable.
A few years ago, I went to the city in which I had grown up to a food market in the "Red zone" In the northeast of Pennsylvania, and I was faced with a scheffel tomatoes.
It was summer and I had shorts.
And I hear how a type behind me says, "If the christian Mullins is not christianist."
And I dreh me and see this older man, I had no idea who he is.
And I said, "Excuse, sir, we know ourselves? I cannot remember it."
And he said, "Well, they are unlikely to remember me.
When I first saw her, I pulled her out of her mother's abdomen. "
Oh, so.
And, of course, it is a click.
That was Dr. Kean, a man I knew only from my mother's narratives about this day, of course, because I was very late to my birthday two weeks.
My mother's doctor was on holiday, and my parents knew the man who brought me to the world was not at all.
And, because I was born without wavering legs, and my feet were focused on them, and I had only a couple of zechs at the other foot, he was the overbringer, and it had to persuade the bad news.
He said to me, "I had to tell your parents that you would never run, and never be as portable as other children or that you could never live an independent life, and since then you have simply strained me."
What I found really extraordinary was that he collected my entire childhood stories, whether I won my scholarship or a sports frenzy contest in the second class, whether I spent the peacefully on the parade of Halloween, regardless of whether
And he called this part of his course the x factor, the potential of human will.
One cannot simply emphasize how much this factor can be for the quality of life of a person.
And Dr. Kean was told further, he said, "I learned that when not always told anything else, and even if they get a bit of support when children can be overwhelmed, children can achieve much."
Look, Dr. Kean has changed his thinking.
He understood that medical diagnosis, and how someone dealt with it are two different things.
And I have changed my thinking over time when asked me at the age of 15, whether I would have replaced my prosthetics from meat and bone, I would not have hesitated for a second.
I wanted to be normal then.
If you ask me this today, I am not so sure.
And that has happened because I have experienced something with my own, not despite these experiences.
And perhaps this change could happen, because I met so many people opening up doors, rather than addressing people who cut me or wanted to think of overlps.
See, it really needs only one person demonstrating how to manifest their forces, and they are through.
If they allow someone to activate its own internal forces – the human spirit is so willing – if they create that, and open a door for someone at a critical moment, they are a very good teacher for them.
They teach them to open their doors.
The real importance of the worn "Culture is rooted in the word" Educe. "
It means producing something that is tickling the potential.
Again, what potential do we want to launch?
In the 1960's, the United kingdom was conducted in a case study, where rival was converted into aggregate schools.
They call this "Streaming trials" In the us as "Tracking."
Students are divided.
And a students are being investigated peacefully, the better teachers and so on.
They then gave about a three-month period of students with "Sufficiently" The note "Very well"; they were told that they were very clever, and after these three months they really wrote.
And, of course, it breaks one of the heart that the us was told to say that it is only enough.
And so it was after the three months.
But only those who have still been in school – aside from students who had reduced school.
The focus on this study was that teachers were not trained.
The teachers did not know that something was changed.
They were simply said that these were the young students, and that students are enough, and they taught them something and treated them.
The only real disability is a broken spirit that has broken down has no hope anymore; he finds nothing more beautiful, lacking our natural, chilling, and our innate capacity of imagination.
But if we are able to support the human spirit, we continue to hope that even and other people around themselves are well finding, curious, and how they are enjoying, we really prioritize our forces positively.
If a spirit has these qualities, we can create a new reality and new modes of das.
I want to end with a poem written by a Persian poet called Hafiz in the fourteenth century, and I told my friend Jacques bois, and the poem is "The god who knows only four words," Every child knows not just the name of god, but the god. "
Come, dance with me. Thank you.
How would they want to be better than they are now?
Suppose I said that few changes in their genes could have better memory – more accurately, and faster.
Or, they want to be more powerful, more force.
Do you want to become more attractive and confident?
How would it be to live longer with good health?
Or perhaps they are one of those who have always been more creativity.
What would they like most?
What would you like to have if you could only have one?
Creativity.
How many people would elect creativity?
Raise their hands, let me see me.
A few are probably as many as creative people are here.
That is very good.
How many would you choose good memory?
A few more.
How would it be fitness?
A few less.
What about longevity?
Ah, the majority, I like to see as a doctor.
If they could have one of them, it would be a very different world.
Is that all education?
Or is it possible?
Evolution has been a steady topic here at the TED conference, but today I want to give you the view of a doctor.
The great geneticists in the twentieth century, John g. Dobzhansky, who was a communist in the Russian Orthodox church, wrote a paper called "Nothing in biology makes no sense in light of evolution."
Now, if you are one of those who do not accept the evidence of biological evolution, this would be a very good time to shut down your hearings, you take your personal communication device - I give you the permission - and perhaps you can still look at the kafa school book that will make any sense.
But if you accept biological evolution, consider this: is it only about the past, or is it about the future?
Is it for others, or are we?
This is another look at the tree of life.
In this image, I have laid a busch as a center of despair in all directions, because when you look at the margins of the tree of life, all existing specialities have had their specialities in evolutionary terms, they survived; it has demonstrated its environment and fitness.
The human part of this fine is far at the end, of course, what we are most interested in.
We double from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees roughly six or eight million years ago.
In this period, there were perhaps 20 or 25 different kinds of human beings.
Some have come and gone.
We have been here for around 130,000 years.
We seem right to be remote from the other parts of the construction of life, but, in fact, the fundamental mechanisms are quite equal to our cells.
Is it clear that we can use it and allow the mechanisms of a common bacteria to produce the protein of human medicine, which is used to treat diabetics?
This is not like human insulin; this is the same protein, which is chemically disdifferentiated from what comes from the pan-rim.
And, with we talking about bacteria, do you realize that each of us in our intestines leads more bacteria than it does in the rest of our body?
Perhaps 10 times the number.
I think that if Antonio Damasio asks her self-image, do you think about bacteria?
Our intestines is a perfectly hospitable environment for these bacteria.
It is warm, it is dark, and it is very dire.
And you will all nutrients that you might only want without an effort.
It is really a easier way for bacteria, with occasional impetus of unintended, jeodine impetus to the outcome.
But, otherwise, they are a wonderful environment for these bacteria, just as they matter for their lives.
They help the digestive of essential nutrients, protecting them against certain diseases.
But what will come in the future?
Are we in a form of evolutionary equilibrium in a spection?
Or are we certainly something different – something that may even be better adapted to the environment?
Let's take a step back to the great bang 14 trillion years ago – the earth, the solar system, around a half billion years ago – the first signs of living creatures, perhaps three to four Milan years ago on the planet – the first multi-tier tent organisms, perhaps so much as a thousand or a human species.
In this huge incomplete symphony of the universe, life on earth is only briefly measured; the animal kingdom, like one thing; and human life, a small centralization.
We were.
This represents the entertainment value of this speech, so I hope that D has fallen.
Now, when I was a neuling in college, I had my first biological courses.
I was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology.
I fell in love with the power of evolution, and I found something very fundamental: in most of the existence of life in single-minded organisms, each cell divides, and all the cell's genetic information of the cell is further led in both subsidiaries.
But, at the time when several tent organisms appeared, things began to change.
Sexual production occurs.
Importantly, with the introduction of sexual reproduction that gives the genome, the rest of the body is essential.
In fact, one might say that the inevitability of our body's death at the same time as sexual reproduction.
Now I must acknowledge that when I was a college student, I thought, okay, sex / death, sex / death, death for sex – it seemed fairly reasonable at the time, but every year, it has come to my growing doubts.
I came to understand the feelings of George burns, who led his show in Las Vegas in the 1990's.
And one night, there is a knocking at his hotel room.
It opens the door.
Before him, a beautiful showman girl faces.
She looks at him and says, "I am here for super-sex."
"That is wonderful," George says, "I will take the soup."
I came to the realization as a doctor that I worked differently than evolution's goal – not necessarily contradictory, only different.
I tried to preserve the body.
I wanted to keep ourselves healthy.
I wanted to restore health after a disease.
I wanted to lead a long and healthy life.
Evolution is all about the sequence of the genome to the next generation, adjustment, and survival generation.
From an evolutionary point of view, they and I, like booster missiles, are developed to send the genetic fracht into the next stage of the orbit to go into the sea.
I think we would all understand the mood that made woody all the expression when he said, "I don't want to achieve immortality through my work.
I do not want to achieve it by not dying. "
Evolution does not necessarily mean favoring the longest life.
It is not necessarily the biggest, strongest, or fastest-– not even the brightest.
Evolution tends to discourage the creatures that best adapt to their environment.
It is only the test of survival and success
At the bottom of the ocean, there are bacteria that are thermopl, thereby making the hot vapor otherwise if fish were there, they would have been a vacuum of fish, but they have managed to make
So, what does this mean when we look back to what happens in evolution, and how we think about people's square, and, above all, as we expect to look at the next phase, I would say that there are a number of possibilities.
The first is that we will not evolve.
We have reached a kind of balance.
And the reasons would be that, first, we managed to receive a lot of genes that would otherwise have been selected and removed from the population.
Second, as a spezie, we have so configurized our environment that we have managed to adapt to us just as well as we adapt to them
And, by the way, we migrate, and mix so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find stature.
A second option is that it will be a traditional kind of evolution, of course, imposed by the forces of nature.
And the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slow, but they are unbitant.
And, as far as isolation occurs as a species of distant planet, there will be isolation and the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way.
But there is a third possibility, a compelling, fascinating, and terrifying possibility.
I call it neo-evolution - the new development that is not easy, but led and decided of us as an individual in the decisions we make.
Now how could this happen?
How could we do so?
Consider the reality that people today make decisions about their offspring in some cultures.
They are, in some cultures, the choice to have more men than women.
It is not necessarily good for society, but it is what individual and family choose.
So think, if not only possible, you would choose your child's gender, but also make genetic adjustments that would cure and prevent disease.
What if they could make genetic changes to eliminate or eliminate diabetes or Alzheimer's reduction of cancer risk or strokes?
Would they not want to make these changes in their genes?
If we foresee, this kind of change will be increasingly possible.
The human genome project began in 1990, and it took 13 years.
It cost $2.7 billion.
Following year, when it was finished in 2004, they could do the same for $20 million in drone to four months.
Today, they can complete a sequence of the three billion basencouples of the human genome at a price of about $20,000 and in the space of around a week.
It will no longer take a long time for reality that there will be the $1,000 human genome, and it will increasingly be available to everyone.
A week ago, the national Academy of engineering banned the Draper prize for Francis and Willem stebs, two scientists who developed the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way - which Frances Arnold direct evolution. "
A few years ago, the lasker-price was awarded the scientist Shinya Yamanaka for his research in which he adopted an adult home, a vil-blasts, and by manipulating only four genes that cell turned it into a pluripotence cell - a potentially capable of a cell.
These changes are coming.
The same technology that produces human insulin in bacteria can make viruses that cannot only protect themselves, but can also serve immunity against other viruses.
Whether you believe it or not, it is an experimental study in motion with vaccine vaccine that has been built in the cells of a tobacco plant.
Can you imagine something good from tobacco?
This is all reality today, and much more will be possible in the future.
Imagine only two other small changes.
They can change the cells in their body, but what if they could change their cells?
What if they could change workers and eid cells or the newly leveraged egg to give their children a better chance for a healthier life – eliminating the coherence of diabetes, reduce hemophilia, the risk of cancer?
Who does not want healthier children?
And then the analytical technology that can allow the same motor of science to prevent the disease could allow us to adopt hyper-capacity – better memory.
Why do not have the skill of a Jennings hben, especially if you can broaden with the Watson's next generation?
Why not have the quick muscle Fibers that will allow them to run faster and longer?
Why no longer live?
These will be irresistible.
And if we are in a place where we can pass on the next generation, and we can adopt the attributes that we want, we will be converted from alt-style to neo-evolution.
We will have a process that may usually require 100,000 years, and we can compress it for a thousand years - and perhaps even for the next 100 years.
These are decisions with which their grandchildren, or their grandchildren, must be circumvent.
Are we using these decisions to shape a society better that is more successful?
Or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us, not for others?
Will we be a society of dielangular and unifying, or more robust and often?
These are the kinds of issues we will have to address.
And the deepest of all, will we ever be able to develop the wisdom, and the wisdom we will need to make such decisions?
In the good as in evil, and sooner than they might think, these decisions will lie ahead.
Thank you.
I want you to imagine something tragic that gives you over-human skills, or another who helps you to stand up and go.
We call these robots exotic skeletons at Berkeley Bionics.
They are no other than something that gives them extra strength in the morning, and that will continue to increase their speed and help them to keep their balance.
Indeed, this is the true worsening of humans and machine.
But it is not only that – to merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there.
This is not just a lunacy idea.
To show what we are working now, we are beginning to talk about American soldiers who will take about 100 pounds on its average, and there is a question that they should bear more equipment.
Of course, this leads to some major complications – tailabuses, 30% of them – chronic abuses.
So we thought that we would address this challenge and create an exodus that would help deal with this problem.
So let me imagine hubris now – or the human universal load carrier.
A soldier – I can bear 200 pounds over the diversity of this terrain for many hours.
His flexible design enables itself to swallow deep, croaching, and highly agile movements.
It feels what I want to go where I want to go, raising my strength and duration.
We are up to that device with our industrial partners, this new exodus this year.
So it is true.
Let us now look at the roll-person drivers, something I am particularly passionate about.
There are 68 million people who are estimated around the world in the scene.
That is roughly one% of the total population.
Indeed, this is a conservative estimate.
We are often talking about very young people with tailed-market violations that were hit in the bloom of their life – 2030, 30, 30's, 430's – and the single option is the only option.
But it is also the aging population, whose numbers multiplied.
And the only option – when it comes to a brain strike, or other complications – is the looming.
And, by the way, it has been a very successful introduction since it, as I have to say, 500 years.
So we thought that we could start writing a completely new chapter in mobility.
Let me imagine how einstein is borne by einstein Boxtel, which suffered a backlash for 19 years ago, the result that it has no longer been running for 19 years and now.
Thank you.
As I said, practical is our elect.
Sensors –
His completely non-invasiant sensors into the pitfalls, sending signals to our onboard computers, which is attached to its back.
Here, battery cuts, motor motor motor motor is on its beware, just as they move forward in this fairly weakened and very natural transitions.
I was 24 years old, and would be as a monstrous purge during a ski ride paralyzed me.
A minute, I lost every feeling and every movement below my basin.
Not long after that, a doctor in my health room, and he said, "Biotech, you will never go again."
And that was 19 years ago.
He makes every five hopes of my consciousness.
Adaptable technologies have since made me possible to learn to get ski back, climb, and even ride with the wheel.
But nothing was invented until now.
Thank you.
As they can see, we have the technology, we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them.
It is in our hands, and we have the entire potential to change the lives of future generations – not just for the soldiers, or for biotech, and all roll-fighter drivers, but for all.
Thank you.
At home in new York, I am the head of a non-profit organization called Robin Hood.
If I do not fight poverty, I fought fire as a fireman in a voluntary wager.
Now, in our city, in which volunteers supported a highly qualified firearm, one must be quite early at the helm to meddle.
I recall my first fire.
I was the second voluntary in the firespot, so I was right to have good opportunities.
But it was still a race against the other voluntary volunteers to achieve the dominant man and find out what our tasks would be.
When I found the main man, he had just in a very serious conversation with homeownership that had one of the worst days of her life.
It was in the midst of the night, and it stood up in motion and a screen under the rain out, while its house was burned.
The other volunteer who arrived just before me – call him Lex Luther – reached the main man first and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of homeownership.
The dog! I was linguistically neid.
Because any lawyer or wealth administrations that could now tell the rest of his life that he was in a burning house to save living creatures only because he was faster than I was five seconds.
Now I was the next.
The main man winded me.
He said, "Bezos, they must go to the house.
They must go up to the fire, and this woman must get a couple of shoes. "
I vow.
Now, not exactly what I hoped, but I went on – the treats are high, the flur along the "Real" Firemen over, who were quite ready at that time with the shell to get a couple of shoes.
I know what you think now, but I am not a hero.
I contributed my prey down where I met my favorite dog at the door.
We contributed our resources out to homeownership, not surprisingly, much more attention than I received.
A few weeks later, the fire guard received a letter of household ownership, which they served for the brave use of their house rescue.
One, above all, cherished friendliness: someone had put her even a couple of shoes.
Both in my career in Robin Hood and my attendant career as a voluntary fireman, I witnessed generosity and friendliness on the great scale, but I also see things of individual love and muts.
And do you know what I learned?
They are all important.
So, if I look around this space and see people who have reached either already a beaching values, or on their way there, I want to offer this following memory: wait.
Wait for them to make a difference in a different life until they reach their first million.
If they have something, they now give it.
If you service in a supplements, you give you a park in the neighborhood.
Be a mentor.
Not every day, we will offer an opportunity to save a person's lives, but each day offers us the possibility of changing one.
So they go on; save the shoes.
Thank you.
Berkeley guissani: mark, mark, come back.
Thank you.
I just come back from a community that knows the secret of humanity's continued prosperity.
A place where women say the exceptionally common with sex ', and the game shapes the day – where fun is a serious matter.
And no, it is not burning or San Francisco.
My youthful and masters, their kin.
This is the world of wild apes in the drc forest.
Mafia, together with chimpanzees, are our next relatives.
This means that we have a common ancestor, an evolutionary grandmother that lived around six million years ago.
Now, chimpanzees are well known for their aggression.
But, unfortunately, we have emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution.
But grains show us the other side of the coin.
While chimpanzees are led by great, scary kerers, female empowerment is led to female female empowerment.
There is really something to come, because this leads to a highly tolerant society in which deadly violence has not been observed so far.
Unfortunately, the least well known by the primate.
They live in the deep Congolese walds, and the observation is difficult to accessible.
The Congo is a paradox – a country of exceptional biodiversity and beauty, but also the heart of darkness itself – the scene of a violent conflict that has been angry for decades and has called for so many lives like world war I.
Unsurprisingly, this destruction also threatens the survival of the grains.
Meat trade and the fall of the tree would cause you not even fill a stadium with the admitted grains – and even there we are not certain to be honest.
And yet, in this country of violence and chaos, you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaken.
Who are these relatives?
We know them as "Love rather than war" Apes, because they have frequent, bisexuberant sex, with exchanging partners, and rules so conflicts and social angelds.
I don't say that this would be the answer to all humanitarian problems – for the life of grains consists of more than Kama Sutra.
Mafia – like humans – love to play their lives long.
Gamble does not only mean child games.
For us and it is fundamentally a game for connecting relations and tolerance.
We learn confidence and the rules of the game.
Game increases creativity and resilience, and it is particularly about generating diversity – diversity of interactions, diversity of behaviors, diversity of connections.
And when you look at the game, you see the evolutionary origins of human tariffs, tances, and ritual.
Play is the glue that keeps us apart.
Now I don't know how to play, but I want to show some unique recordings of the wilderness.
For starters, a Gamble on sound love – and I don't think of a football.
So here we see a young female and males in a prosecution game.
Look at what she does.
This could be the evolutionary origin of this: "You would get it into the family."
Only I think he likes, not true.
Yes!
Sex games, however, are widespread, both domestically and human beings.
And this video is really interesting, because it shows – and this video is really interesting, because it shows the wealth that brings new elements into play – such as the testicular – and, like the game demands both confidence and promotes – while making it tremendous fun.
But the game is a formist.
At play is a formal wall, and it can take many forms that some of which are somewhat quieter, are enjoying the full, curious – perhaps about the startling again.
And I want to show you that is Fuku, a young woman, and it plays peacefully with water.
I think just as they play alone, and we sometimes play limits on our inner and external worlds.
And it is such curiosity that makes us work and interact, and the unexpected links we form are the real breeding ground of creativity.
This is only a small precursor to the insights that philosophers grant us to our past and present.
But they also hold a secret for our future, a future in which we must adapt to increasing challenges, through greater creativity and druch cooperation.
The secret is that the game is the key to this skills.
In other words, we are adaptable.
To succeed in adapting to an unpermanent world, we must play.
But will we make the best of our game?
The game is not silly.
It is essential.
For beijing and people alike, life is not from teeth and claws alone.
Just if there seems little appropriate, there may be the most necessary game.
And therefore, my primatenrades, let us play this gift in evolution and play together, while we rediscover the cameroon's creativity and the discourse of
Thank you.
I want you to imagine two couples in mid-1979, the same day, just the same moment, each one is okay.
So two couples, every baby attests.
Now I don't want you to use too much time to imagine imagine, because if you imagine the whole time, you will not listen to me.
Imagine that for a moment.
And in this scenario, they imagine that, in a case, the person bears an y chomosom that meets the x of the egg.
And, in the other case, the blackma bears an x hitting the x of the egg.
Both are survival, both are light.
We return to these people later.
For most of my occupations, I am betting on two.
I am in a guard with the anatomy of history.
I am an historian, and in this case I studied how people went about anatomy – the human body, animal bodies – as they moved with body's liquidity, I was thinking about body.
The other hut I have received in my work is the activist, as domestic lawyers – or, as I say, as impatient lawyers – of people who are patients from doctors.
In that case, I have worked with people who have the body types to question social norms.
For example, I have worked with people who are siamesian twins, two people in a body.
I grew up with people – people who were shorter than usual.
And, too often, I have worked with intersexual people whose sex is atypical – people who do not have the average male or female types.
And, as a general term, we can use the word of intersexual.
Sexuality comes in many forms.
I offer only a few examples of sex-variants that do not correspond to the male or female standard.
In a case, one may have someone with a pla, and the SRY of the y chomosoms leaves the protocols that we all have federal-stage testicular.
And that is why the testicular in the federality is putting on the table.
But, because this individual lacks the parameters to recognize the epidemic, the body does not respond to the damage.
And that is called the threat of the recipe.
So much crime, but no response.
As a consequence, the body is becoming more typical female.
When the child is born, it looks like a girl.
She is a girl; she is educated as girls.
But it is mostly until it reaches random and its breasts grow and evolve, but it does not get their period until someone comes to something different here.
And they make a few tests and find that, rather than egg sticks and cervile, it is in reality, and that it has a y dollar.
It is important to understand that this person might be male, but they are not really.
Women, like men, have something called adrenaline's.
They are in the back of our body.
And the side side pose threats that are vigorous hormones.
Most women, as I – I believe, are a typical woman – I don't know my actual bmw, but I think I probably have the typical – most women like me are actually talking to androgene.
We produce threats, and we are talking to androgene.
As a result, someone like me has a brain that was exposed to more threats than a woman born with testicular, and has a threat to hazard.
So gender is really complicated; intersexual people are not just in the middle of gender – in some ways they can be distributed across the range.
Another example: a few years ago, I received the call of an 19 year-old man born as a boy, he had a friend who lived with his girlfriend, as a man, and he had just found that he had ovaries and a cervile.
He had an extreme form of innate heralal-renal hyperbubble.
He has XX ropes, and in the meantime, his side kidneys were so much active that they produced essentially a male hormone environment.
And, as a consequence, its genitalians were male, his brain was exposed to the hormone spectrum.
And when he was born, he looked like a young - no one warned something.
And only when he became 19 years old, he received enough medical problems, in fact, because he was internally menstrusted that doctors discovered that he was in the interior.
Okay, just a quick example of a variant of intersexuality.
Some people with XX chromosomes are developing something called the ovoti's, with ovariant tissue swapped up.
We don't know exactly why this is happening.
So gender can occur in many different variants.
The reason why children with this type of body – whether it grew or siesian twins, are being sexually inter- by surgeons often adapted to the norm is not because it would be beneficial for their physical health.
In many cases, these people are entirely healthy.
The reason why they often make different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories.
Typically, our system is based on the idea that some anatomical president is accompanied by a certain identity.
So we have the concept that a woman is to have a female identity; a black person is said to have an African anatomy in terms of their own history.
So we have this dreadful idea.
And when we are confronted with a body that is, indeed, something very different for us, it is confusing us in terms of this categorical risk.
So we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture.
And our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism.
Now you can imagine how startling it is when children are born that two people are in a body.
Where I have experienced the most excitement lately, South Africa's renster Semenya, whose sex in Berlin's chattering world cup was challenged last year.
Many journalists called me with the question: "What test will you do to tell us whether Caster Semenya is female or male?"
And I had to explain the journalists that there is no test.
We now know that gender complicates enough is that we must admit that nature is not a line between male and benevolent, or between male and intersexually and female; and interdependence; we are precisely the dividing line of course.
So we have a situation where ever our science progresses, we need to be so much more agreed to that the categories we had kept for stable anatomical categories that create very simple regulations for permanent identity circles are far more stricken than we have assumed.
And that is not just about gender.
There is also about race, which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed.
In our thinking, we have all sorts of unpleasant areas.
For example, we release the fact that we have at least 95% of our DNA with chimpanzees in common.
What should we start with the fact that we differ only by few nuclear-tide?
As we continue to advance our science, we are increasingly becoming a zone of unease where we must recognize that the simplistic categories we have probably been too simple.
We see this in all possible areas of human life.
One of the areas in which we view this to the beipiel are in today's culture, in today's United states, fighting over the beginning and the end of life.
We have difficult conversations about what point will become a human body, so that it is a different right than the federal life.
We have very difficult disputes nowadays – perhaps not as publicly as in medicine – about when someone is dead.
Our ancestors had never been so difficult to fight when someone was dead.
They have kept someone out of a country at best, and if they moved, they have not yet buried them.
If she moved no longer, you buried them.
But today, we are in a situation where people want to take vital organs and plant them to other people.
And, as a result, we are beginning to fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead, and that brings us to a truly difficult situation in which we no longer have as simple categories as before.
Now they might assume that the entire categories of people like me would be truly happy.
I am politically progressive, I defend people with unusual bodies, but I must admit it.
To understand that these categories are really much more uncertain than we thought, power me raises.
And it makes me wonder about democracy.
So, to tell them about this tension, I must first know that I am a great fan of the founding fathers.
I know that they were racist, I know that they were sexists, but they were great.
I find that they were so brave and strong, and so radically to see what they did all a few years watching the rotch musical zige 1776, and it is not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten.
It is because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers.
The founding fathers were my view of the original anatomical activists, which is why.
What it had was an anatomical concept, and it was instrumental by another radical and beautiful, and 200 years for us.
As they all remember, our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy, and monarchy was based on a very simplified concept of anatomy.
The old world's rulers had no concept based on DNA, but they had a concept of birthright.
They had a concept of constructed blood.
They believed that people who had political power should have this political power, owing to the inherited bloodline of grandfather's father and so on.
The founding fathers had this idea back and reaped it by a new anatomical concept, and that concept said that all people were equally valuable.
They nivelvelvelveled the playing field and decided that anatomically, the similarities were not the difference, and that was very radical.
Now they made it part because they were part of a Enlightenment system, where two things grew together.
Democracy grew at the same time, but science grew up.
If one looks at the history of the founding fathers, many of them were very interested in science, and they were interested in a concept of a natural world.
They went away from declarations of natural nature, and had things like a natural concept of power, back where transmission is based on a very vague conception of birth.
It moved into a natural concept.
And, for example, if one considers the declaration of independence, they speak about nature and the god of nature.
They are not talking about god and the nature of god.
They talk of nature's power to tell us who we are.
And, as part of this, they made us a concept of anatomical commonalities.
And, in a truly wonderful way, they have prepared the future civil rights movement.
They did not think so about it, but what they did for us was great.
So what happened years after?
For example, women who used the electoral law, the concept of founding fathers, which says that anatomical common is more important than the anatomical difference, and said, "That we have a cermother and ovaries is not significant enough that we should not have the right to do so.
And women argued that successfully.
Next, the successful civil rights movement, where we saw people like Sojourner's truth, "I am not a woman?"
We find men in the March ranks of the guardianship movement, who say, "I am a man."
Again, people of different skin color, who are again successful at anatomical differences in anatomical differences.
We see the same in the disabled movement.
Of course, the problem is that, as well as we start looking at all of the commonalities, we must start asking why we maintain certain divisions.
Now, you mind, I want to maintain certain divisions, anatomically, in our culture.
For example, I do not want to give a fish the same rights as one.
I do not want to say that we should refrain from the anatomy.
I do not want to say that 5-year is the right to give their understanding of sex or marriage.
So there are some anatomical divisions that make sense for me, and I think we should retain.
But the challenge is to try to identify what it is and why we keep them, and whether they make sense.
So if we come back to these two beings have been attested at the beginning of the speech.
We have met two essence, both in mid-1979 the same day.
Imagine that one of them, Mary, was born premature three months, so it is born on June 1.
Heinrich, on the other side, is born to the birthday min, so he is born on March 1.
Only because maria 3 months were born premature, she gained all kinds of rights three months before heinrich – the right to accept the right to vote the right to drink the
Heinrich must wait for all of this, not because he has another biological age, only because of the timing of his birth.
We find other features about what their rights are.
Heinrich, as one believes that he is male – though I have not told them that he is the MIT XY – because he believes that he is male, he can now be drawn to what maria does not have to worry.
Maria, on the other hand, cannot see the same right in all states that heinrich in all states, and rightly marry.
Heinrich can marry a woman in every state, but maria can now marry only in a few states.
So we have these enduring anatomical categories that are problematic in many ways and questionable.
And, for me, what will we do, as our science makes such progress in the anatomy of power that we have to reach a point where we must admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart?
I do not want to abandon science, but at the same time it feels like science is self-serving.
So where do we go?
It seems that our culture would take a kind of pragmatic attitude: "Well, we must draw a line somewhere, so we pull it somewhere."
But a lot of people are beginning in a very separate position.
So, for example, Texas decided at a point that marriage is a man that you have no y dollar, and to marry a woman that you have an y all.
In practice, people are not being tested on their peachers.
But it is also very bizarrely, because of the history that I initially told them about the threat of gene defects.
If we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy, Dr. Martin Luther king, he offers us a dream in his "I have a kind of solution."
He says that we should judge people not after "Their skin color, but following the nature of their character," And goes beyond.
And I want to say, "Yes, that sounds like a right idea."
But how do you do so in practice?
How judging people from their character characteristics?
I also want to point out that I am not sure that we should distribute rights to people because I must admit that I know a series of golden bullets that are likely to earn benefits rather than some people I know.
I want to pledge that I probably know some light labdordogs that are more able to make fundierous, smarter, and mature decisions about sexual relations than some 40-year I know.
So how should we operational the question of the properties of nature?
It turns out to be truly difficult.
And one part of me wonders, what if the content of a personality that would be machine lesbar in the future – could be made visible
Do we really want to go in this direction?
I am not sure where we go.
What I know is that it really seems important to think about the idea that the us is a leader to worry about democracy.
In our efforts to democracy, we have done our cause well, and I think we would do well in the future.
We don't have the situation, for example, in Iran, where a man who has been attracted to other men is punished with death, unless he is prepared to sign a sex-transformation in which he must remain alive.
Conditions of this kind do not exist.
I am glad to say that we have not – a surgeon with which I spoke a few years ago, who had brought a few siberian twins to separate them in part to name one.
But when I telephone him, and asked him why he made these interventions – it was highly risky operations – his answer was that in his country, these children would be very poorly treated, so he had to do it.
I replied, "Now you have contemplated political asylum rather than separate surgery?"
The United states offers tremendous opportunity to allow people to be the ones they are without changing the will of the state.
That is why I think we must lead.
Good, just to conclude, I want to notice that I have spoken much about the fathers.
And I want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like, or have seemed if we have more involved the mothers.
And I want to say something radically radical for a feminist, and I think there may be several kinds of insights that stem from different kinds of anatomy, especially when people use group thinking.
For years, because I have been interested in intersexuality, I have also interested in research in gender difference.
And one of the things I really found interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and in the world.
What we learned from cultural studies is that women, on average – not every, but on average – tend to give much attention to complex social relations and care for people vulnerable within the group.
And that is why, if we think about this, we have an interesting situation ahead.
Years ago, when I made a graduate study, I asked myself of my interest in feminism – I watched myself as a feminician, I still do so – a truly true question.
He said, "You tell me what feminism is female."
And I thought, "That is the worst question I have ever heard.
Feminism is about dissolving cliché about gender, so feminism is nothing different.
But ever more I have been thinking about his question to think that there could be something female in feminism.
This is to say that there may be something, on average, making female brains different from male brains more attentive for highly complex social relations, and thoughtful for protecting them.
So, where the founding fathers were extremely careful to figure out how individuals could be protected from the state, it is possible that if we were to introduce more mothers in this concept, we can use more of a concept not just as to protect, but how to ensure each other.
And perhaps it is where we must go in the future when we give democracy beyond anatomy – less about individual bodies about identity and think about relations.
For example, when we try to link a more perfect connection, we think about what we can do for each other.
Thank you.
I am Jessi, and this is my wallet.
But, before I show you what I have to do, I will make a very public deal, and that is: I am obsessed with outfit.
I love to find another color, a maddening outfit, and to take pictures and blog recently.
But I don't buy anything new
I get all my clothes from second hand, fled in second-hand shops.
Bashing, thank you.
Second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment, and also on my purse exchange.
I meet all kinds of good people; my dollars usually serve a good purpose; I see pretty unique; and it makes my personal search.
I mean what will I find today?
Will it be my size?
Will I like the color?
Will it cost less than $20?
If all answers are yes, I feel like I won.
I come back to my bombs, and tell you what I had done for this exciting week.
I mean what does someone with so many outfit?
So I will show you exactly what I learned.
I met seven few undermines, and that is all.
Undermines for just one week are all I have done in my bags.
I would bet that I would do everything I might want to bear if I were to come after palm Springs.
And, because they have not heard of me as the woman who is running around at TED – that means I found a few things.
And I absolutely want to show my outfit for this week.
Sounds good?
While I do so, I will also give you some of the lessons I believe it or not learned from these adventurers.
Let us start on Sunday.
I call this the shining tigers.
You need not spend much money to look good.
It is almost always great to look like less than $50.
This entire outfit, including the jacket, cost me 55, and it was the most expensive time that I had been wearing this week.
On monday, color is something powerful.
It is almost physiologically impossible to be ill-charged if you have a bright-red red rents.
If you are happy, other happy.
Adjustment is totally overvalued.
I have spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself and adapt simultaneously.
Be simple who they are.
If you surround yourself with the right people, you will not only understand it, you will estimate it.
Wednesday: repoor they live their home child.
Sometimes people tell me that I would look like I dress up 'games, or that I recall them at their seven years.
I like to smile and say, "Thank you."
Donnerstag: self-confidence is the key.
If you think you see something well, it is almost certain.
And if you think that you don't look well, you are likely to be right.
I grew up with a mother that taught me the day.
But only when I became 30, I really understood what this means.
And I will summarize that briefly for them.
If they believe that they are inside and outside a wonderful person, there is nothing they cannot bear.
So there is no excuse for someone in this audience.
We should be able to swallow everything we want.
Thank you.
Friday: a universal truth – five words: golden paillets fit.
Finally, Saturday: developing one's own unique personal style is a great way to tell the world something about one without saying a word.
I have always shown time and again when people came to me this week simply because of what I contributed, and I had great talks.
Obviously, this will not fit everything in my tiny bags.
So, before I go back to Brooklyn, I will give all this back.
For the lesson I try to learn this week is that it is okay to let Los.
I don't have to get this emotionally accommodative, because there will always be another juring, color, radiation outfit waiting for me if I love a bit in the heart and find it.
I thank you very much.
Thank you.
Good day, everyone combined.
I have something I want to show to you.
Think of that as a looming educational point.
That is what we call in our laboratory, perception design.
Let me tell you a little about it.
If you take this picture – I am originally italians, and every young in Italy is growing with this picture in his room, but why I show them something very interesting in the theory of 1 in recent decades.
Some time ago, it was that if they wanted to win a Formula 1, they would take their budget and put their money on a good driver and a good car.
And if the car and drivers were good enough, they won the race.
Now, if you want to win a race, you really need something like this here – something that monitors the car in real time, some thousand sensors that pass information to the system, and then you use it to send back the car decisions and transform things in real time.
They would call it a real-time control system.
And, in fact, it is a system that is composed of two parts – a palpable part and a response.
What is interesting nowadays is the real-time control systems begin to appear in our lives.
Our cities have been equipped with networks and electronics over the past few years.
They will become computers in free.
And, as computers in free, they begin to respond in other ways, they are perceived and driven.
If we create cities, this is indeed a big cause.
Only by contrast, I want to mention that cities are only two% of the earth's surface, but 50% of the world's population lives there.
They are 75% of energy consumption – causing up to 80% of CO2 emissions.
So, if we do something with the cities, that is a big deal.
Beyond cities, all of this perceive and power in everyday life.
This is an exhibition organized by Paola Antonelli for MoMA later, during the summer.
I talk with me. "
Now, all of our objects, our environment, start talking back to us.
In some sense, it is almost as if any atom is out there will be both, a sensor, and a driver.
And that is radically changing the interaction we people with our environment.
In a way, it is almost as if the old dream of Michelangelo...
Do you know, when Michelangelo shaped the Moses, it means that he took the hammer at the end, and put him on Moses – indeed, can you still see a small spot – saying, "Perché non parli, why not you?"
Now, our environment begins for the first time to respond to us.
I will show just some examples – again, seizing and driving our environment.
Let us begin with this.
Now the first project I want to imagine is in fact one of the first of our laboratories.
It emerged four and a half years ago in Italy.
And what we have done was to use a new kind of network used around the world – that is a mobile phone network – and anonymous and interconnected information from this network that is already collected by the operators to understand how the city works.
The summer was a fortunate summer – 2006.
It was when Italy won the world cup.
Some of them will remember that Italy played against France, and then at the end of Zidane, the head.
No matter, Italy ended.
Now they see what happened this day only when the activity that happens in the network.
Here they see the city.
They see the colossal in the middle, the sober.
The morning, before the stakes.
They see the timeline up.
In the early afternoon, people here, and there are the calls and moving.
The game begins – silence.
France makes a gateway. Italy makes a gateway.
Half the time people make a short call, go to the toilet.
Second half time. At the end of the normal game.
First extension, second.
Zidane, at a moment the headhit.
Italy wins.
Now, at this night, everyone went to the center to celebrate.
They saw the great blow.
The next day, everyone went to the center for the winner and the prime minister at the same time.
And then everyone went down.
They see the picture of the plato's Circo Massimo, where, since the Roman period, people who have to celebrate – to have a large party, and they see the blow at the end of the day.
Now, this is just one example of how we can feel the city today, in a way that we could not do it a few years ago.
Another example is not about people, but about what we use and consume.
Now, we know everything about where our causes come.
This is a map that shows all the chips from which a Mac is computers that came together.
But we know little about where things go.
So, in this project, we have indeed designed some small markers to pursue the waste while it is dealing with the system.
So we started with some voluntary volunteers who helped us a bit more than a year ago in Seattle to mark the things they throw away – various kinds of things that they can see – things that would already resort.
Then we have the small chips, the small stamped on the trash, and started to pursue it.
Here are the results we have just gotten.
Seattle...
After a week.
With this information, we recognized that there are a lot of inefficiencies in the system.
Indeed, we can make the same things less energy.
The data were not available before.
But this will happen a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things.
The other thing is that we believe that if we see every day that the cup we throw away is not easy that it is still somewhere on the planet.
And the plastic bottle that we still throw away every day remains there.
And if we were to show people, we can advance their behavior.
So that is why this project is.
My colleague at the MIT assad Biderman could tell them much more about what we see and tell the many other wonderful things you can do with, but I want to talk about the second part we discussed, and that is the drive of our environment.
And the first project is something that we made in Zaragoza a few years ago.
It began with a question of the citizens who came to us, saying that Spain and southern Europe have a brave tradition of using water in public places as part of the architecture.
And the question was: how could technology connect new technology?
And one of the ideas collected at a labor rice was identified, they face these schläuble, and valves, who work out magnetic valves that open and close.
They cause a water prerogative of education from water.
If these manifests downfall, they can write on them, they can chart images, text.
And they can approach him, and he will open up to leaping through how they can see this picture.
Now we have imagined the mayor of belhole.
He has dropped very much.
And we got a building at the entrance of the expo.
We called it the digital water pavillion.
The entire building was water.
There is no doors or windows, but if they approach it, it will open up and let them go into it.
The roof was also covered with water.
And if windig wants to reduce the syringes, they can even reduce the roof.
Or they could close the building, and the whole architecture, as in this case, you know, this days when you downturn the roof, you get images of people who were there and say, "You have destroyed the building."
No, they have not destroyed the building, it is only so that the architecture is almost disappears.
Here they see how the building works.
They see the person who wonders what happens within.
And here they see me when I tried not to get the fastest sensors that opened water.
Now, I should tell you what happened one night when all sensors stopped working.
But, in fact, it was even more fun this night.
All children from Zaragoza came to the building, because the way they played with the buildings was quite different.
No longer a building that would open up to it, but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water had had to be picking up without fling.
And that was, for us, very exciting, because as architects, engineers, as a designer, we always think about how people use the benefits we design.
But reality is always unpredictable.
And that is brave about shaping things used and interacting with people.
Here is a picture of the structure with the physical education, water points, and the project.
And that is what made us think about the following project I show now.
Imagine these schemes might really begin to fly.
Imagine that they could have small helicopters who fly through the air, and each of them with a small educational point with expired – almost as a cloud that can move through the room.
Here is the video.
Imagine a helicopters, as they saw earlier, moving with others, are entirely synchronized.
They can have that cloud.
They can have a kind of flexible screen or complaints, such as these – an equilibrium formation in two dimensions.
Or, in three dimensions of what is changing, the light is not the position of education.
They can play with different types.
Imagine the screen could simply appear in different formations or measures, in different ways.
But then this could be just a 3D cloud of education on which they can move and move through which they can see in many ways.
Here, they see a real flyretaxation that is falling down by a more evenly moderate.
If you weigh the light, so we have seen it before.
Imagine that every individual is managed.
Each individual image may have a impulse that comes from people's movements or the sort of thing.
I want to show you something first.
We have worked with Roberto Bolle, one of the world's best ballatter dancers – the étotovarile on Metropolitan Theater in new York, and Scala in Milan – we have captured his movements in 3D to use it as a catalyst for the Flyfire.
Here they see Roberto dance.
On the left, they see the images that have various fanciments.
It is simultaneously a real-time 3D scan and a move.
So they can understand the whole movement.
They can do that all the time.
But, once we have all educational points, they can play with it and play with color movement of gravity and the move.
We want to use this as a possible impulse for the Flyfire.
I want to show you the latest project to work.
It is something we work for the London Olympics.
It calls the cloud – the cloud.
The idea is, in turn, imagine what we engage people with and changing the environment – almost as we call cloud movement to build like a sheunor, but with a cloud movement.
Imagine that everyone can give a small donation to a show.
I think that what happened last few years is that we are shifting from a physical world to a digital world.
This has digitized everything, knowledge, and makes it accessible by the Internet.
Today, we can, for the first time – and Obama's campaign has shown this – we can change from the digital world, from the self-comprising forces of networks to the physical world.
That may be in our case that we use it to design and create a symbol.
That is what is built in the city.
But tomorrow will be able to address the challenges ahead – think of climate change or CO2 emissions – as can we change from the digital world to the physical.
So the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together collectively.
The cloud is again a cloud of education, in the same way a cloud is a cloud of particles.
And these particles are water, while our cloud is a cloud of education.
It is a physically entity in London, but it covers education.
They can move within and have different kinds of experience.
They can indeed see it from the bottom, share the most important moments for the olympic 2012, and use it as a kind of link to the community.
So both, the sky's physical cloud, and something at the top they can move, such as London's new mountain summit.
They can go in.
And a kind of digital leuchurm at the night – but as the most important, a new type of experience for all who want to lead.
Thank you.
As an artist, I am very important.
By my work, I am attempting to express that people are not separate from nature and that everything is connected.
The first time I was almost 10 years ago in Antarctica, where I saw my first iceberg.
I wound up in awe.
My heart raste, I was divisive, while I tried to imagine what was going on.
The ice mountains around me raged nearly 60 meters out of water, and I could only wonder that a snowlock was at another snail year.
Inventory mountains are born as a kalb of a glecer or by breaking out of iron warplanes.
Each iceberg has its own individual personality.
They interact in a clear way with their surroundings and their experiences.
Some refuse to abandon and cling to the bitter end, while others do not keep it out and topple more dramatic passion.
If one considers an iceberg, one thinks that they are isolated, separate, and alone, as we people often see us.
But the truth is far from it.
While an iceberg melts, I ATM its pre-atmosphere.
While the iceberg melts, it releases mineral rich drinking water that feeds many forms of life.
I am going to my photographs of these iceberg as if I make my ancestors a habit of knowing that they will look out in these individual moments, and never again exist.
It is not a death when it is melting; it is not an end; it is a continuation of its drift along the cycle.
Part of the ice in the ice mountains, which I suspect is very young – a few thousand years old.
And part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old.
The last images I like to show to you show an iceberg that I have halved in kekertsuatsiak in Greenland.
Indeed, it is rarely seen as an escalating iceberg.
Here they see it.
On the left, they see a small boat.
This is about five meters long.
Please look at the form of the iceberg and where it is at the water line.
You can see here, he is beginning to roles, and the boat has moved to the other side, the man is there.
That is the average size of a Greenland iceberg.
He takes about 120 feet from water, or 40 meters.
And this video is in real time.
And, simply, the iceberg shows a different side of his personality.
I thank you.
My life is truly blessed by working on some startling projects.
But the coolest what I have ever worked was this guy.
His name is TEMPT.
He TEMPT was one of the leading graffiti artists of the 1980's.
Then, one day, he came back from running and said, "Paps, my feet of crimeddling."
And that was the outbreak.
It is now fully paralyzed.
He can only use his eyes.
I stood up to him.
I have a firm that makes design and particulates, so graffiti is bound to be a complex part of what we admire and respect in the art world.
So we decided to support Tony – TEMPT – and his cause.
I met with his father and brother and said, "We will give you that money.
What will you do? "
And his brother said, "I want to talk with Tony.
I want to talk with him only again, and I asked, "Moment, isn't it – I have seen Stephen Hawking – cannot communicate all the paralyzed people through these devices?"
And he replied, "No, only if one belongs to the higher social class and has remarkable insurance, you can really do so.
Ordinary people are not accessible to these devices. "
And I replied, "How do you communicate?"
Has someone seen the film'butterfly and futile "?
As a result, they communicate their fingers.
I staunted: "Very archaic, how can this be?"
So I came with the need to put just a check, and instead I wrote a check I didn't know how to fix it.
I committed me to the place and where it comes to his brother and father, in the words, "Well my proposal is like: Tony will speak, we will get a machine, and we will find a way to make his art again.
For it is a farce that someone who still contributes to all of this cannot communicate. "
So I spoke at a conference a few months later.
I met these people from GRL, graffiti research lab, and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface, and then sign with a laser pointer who only registered the negative area.
So they move around and make plastics installations like them.
They say that all things that are reported there will follow a life cycle.
It starts with the sexes, then the murky words come after the bush's defaults, and most recently, people actually make art.
But there has always been a life cycle in its presentation.
So I went home and dinner with my wife and told her about everything, and we thought, "Now, second, if this technology exists, with which it can use his eyes to manage things, we should find a way that a laser can manage what he can do.
That was the start of the journey.
For example, two years later, about a year later, after a lot of organization and lots of things, we have reached some things.
First, we have appointed insurance to the doors, and have actually received a machine that he can communicate – a hawking-machine.
That was incredibly.
And he is really extreme – I call him Yoda, because you talk with him, or get an email, and think, "I am so unworthy that guy is incredibly."
We also flew seven programmers out of the world – literally from all corners of the world – at home.
My wife, my children, and I have moved into the garage, and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken our house.
Many of our friends thought that we were nice to do so, and that we would be back and all images on the walls would be graffiti.
But for more than two weeks, we came to the beach promenade in Venice, my dog, too, and we created this.
It calls EyeWriter, and you can see the description.
This is a cheap solar lens that we bought on the board of Venice, a bit copper wire, and a few of the construction market and electronics trade.
We took a ps3-camera, built them, set them on a led light, and now we have a device that is freely accessible – one can build it itself, we provide the code for free that can be solved without free.
So we have created a machine entirely free of restraints.
No insurance can emerge
No hospital.
Any paralyzed can, indeed, communicate or speak with its eyes alone.
Thank you.
Thank you very much, that was incredibly.
So, at the end of the two weeks, we went back to tempts.
I love this picture, because it is someone else's room, and that is his room.
There is all this frenzy before the great revelations.
And, after more than a year of planning, two weeks of design, nudelinees, and, Tony came back after seven years.
And this is an impressive picture, because this is its life-support system, and it looks beyond its life-support system.
We have inclined his bed to see it outside.
We set up a project against a wall of the hospital's parking lot.
And he called again for the first time in his family and friends – and one can imagine what a sense of the parking lot was.
Lustibly, we also had to break into the parking lot, so we were rightly felt as part of the profession.
At the end, he sent us an email with consequential content: "For the first time in seven years, I drew something.
I feel that I have been depressed under water, and I have finally picked up someone down and drawn my head so that I can breathe breathe. "
Isn't that overwhelming?
This is something like our battle.
That keeps us in the rod, and we can continue to develop.
And we need to improve much of this equipment.
It is a stunning device, but a magic billboard comes the same.
And someone who has such a British potential deserves so much more.
So we are finding out how to make it better, faster, and stronger.
Since that time, we have received all kinds of recognition.
We won some prices.
Consider them, it is free, no one of us deserves this.
Everything comes from our own pockets.
The labels were "Oh, that is great."
Armstrong tweeted us and then, in December, the time-magazine has been honored when one of the 50 best inventions in 2010, which was really class.
The coolest of this is – and that includes the entire circle – that there will be an exhibit called "Art of the streets" This April, at the dawn of MOCA in the inner city of Los Angeles.
And there will probably be pretty closest to the street art scene – Banksy, Shepard farey, caws – all these boys will be there.
It will be part of the show, which is quite defied.
So, after all, that is why when you see something that is impossible, then you do.
All in this area was impossible – this stage, this computer, this microphone, the writer EyeWriter – all was impossible.
Make it possible – everyone here.
I am not a programmers, and I never had something to do with audit technology, but I simply captured something and surround me with startling people so that we could put something on our feet together.
And that question should everyone ask themselves, and, at each day, that will have to do something that must be done. If not now, when, and if not I, who?
I thank you.
So I write for children, and I probably am America's most often redued child accounting.
And I always tell people that I do not like a scientist.
I can be a farmer, or in leather, but no one has ever elected farmer.
Today, I want to tell you about circles and offensive agreements.
Now, a Enlightenment is usually something you find because you have dropped somewhere.
The bloc is about, and it is seen as revealing.
That is a paintings of a circle.
One of my friends has done it – Richard bollingous broke.
It is the sort of complicated circle of which I want to tell you today.
My circle began at the high school in the 1960s, Ohio, where I was the class swamp.
I was the person who was beaten green and blue every week in the maids, until a teacher saved my life.
She rescued my life by using me the toilet in the teacher's room.
They did so.
It did for three years.
And I had to go out of the city.
I had a pass, I had $85, and I proposed to San Francisco in California – I found a two-thirds – and I found it important to join AIDS organizations in the 1980s.
About three or four years ago, I received a call from this teacher, a woman who said, "I must see them.
I am saddened that we never learned each other as adults.
If you come to Ohio, and please join with the man I know that you have now found him.
And I should say that I have constructive cancer, and I want you to rush. "
Now, the next day, we were in Cleveland.
We saw them, we were laughed, and we knew that they would have to be in a hospice.
We found one for them, we brought them, and we were stunned about them, and we gave up their family eight because it was needed.
It was something we knew to do.
And, just as the woman seeking to learn as an adult, she transformed me into a box full of ash and was laid into my hands.
What happened was that the circle was closed, it became a circle – and the revelation of which I spoke showed.
The revelation is that death is part of life.
It saved my life, and my partners and I rescued their lives.
And they know that part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs.
He needs truth and beauty, and I am so happy that this is so often mentioned.
He needs the same – he would need love and pleasure, and it is to give us these things.
Thank you.
Imagine a big explosion as they rise to 1,000 meters.
Imagine a plane filled with smoke.
Imagine an engine that klack, klack, klack, klack, klack, klack, klack, klack, klack.
That sounds scary.
Now I had a unique place this day; I sat on 1D.
I was the only one to talk to the airlines.
So I looked the same way, and they said, "No problem we have a few birds caught."
The pilot had already turned the machine, and we were not so far away.
You could see Manhattan.
Two minutes later, three things happened simultaneously.
The pilot set the machine out of the streets after the barcelona river.
That is usually not the route.
It eliminates the engines.
Imagine a dirty plane.
And then he said three words – the emotive words I have ever heard.
He says, "Provision for the" One. "
I no longer had to talk with bordders.
I could see it in their eyes, as deterred, life was at the end.
I want to tell you three things that I learned this day.
I learned that everything is different at a moment.
We have this climate plan, we have these things that we want to make in life, and I thought of all the people I wanted to rich and did not, all the fences I wanted to do, all the experiences I wanted to make and never made.
As I thought about it later, I was a saying that "I am a poor wman."
For when the wine is up, and the person is there, I open it
I never want to shift lives.
And that urgency, this goal, has really changed my life.
The second thing I learned this day – and that was when we failed the George Washington bridge, quite appalling – as I thought that we humans, there is one thing I really regret.
I had a good life.
In my own humanity, and my mistakes, I sought to become better in everything I saw.
But, in my humanity, I have also given the room for me.
And I took the time I wasted for meaningless things, with people who mean something.
And I thought about the relationship with my wife, to friends, to people
And, after I thought about it, I decided to banish negative energy from my life.
It is not perfect, but it is much better.
I have no longer withdrawn myself with my wife two years.
It feels great.
I am no longer attempting to be right; I am committed to being happy.
The third thing I learned – and, as the internal clock begins, "15, 14, 13,..." downcounts.
Water is coming.
I said, "Please ride in the air."
I don't want this thing to break in 20 parts, as we know it from documentation.
As we topple, I had this sense of dying is not frightening.
Almost as if we prepare our lives for our lives.
But it was very sad.
I didn't want to go; I love my life.
And this sadness truly formed in a thought: I wish one thing.
I wish I could see my children grow up.
About a month after, I visited my daughter – the first student, not a lot of British talent...
... Not yet.
And I celebrate a small child.
And, in the world, everything made sense for me.
I became clear then by linking the points to each other that life is only about a great father.
More than anything else, my only goal in life is to be a good father.
I became the wonder of dying this day.
I was given another gift to see in the future, and to go back and live differently.
My call to all who fly today: imagine the same thing happens on their flight – but don't imagine it; and how would they change?
What would they do if they postpone, because they think they are always
How would they change their relations and negative energy?
More than anything else, are they the best parents they can be?
Thank you.
The idea behind xnet computer worm is quite simple.
We do not want Iran to build the bomb.
The most important post for the development of nuclear weapons is nato's uranium enrichment facility.
The horrors that you see here are real-time control systems.
If we manage to compensate for systems that control the numbers and valves, we can actually cause a lot of problems with centrifuge.
These horrors are not running with windows software; they are based on a completely different technology.
But if we create an effective windows virus on a laptop used by a ward-engineer to structure this gray box, we are in business.
And that is behind xnet planning.
So we begin with a windows drug.
The utility of data are delayed in the gray box transfates, humiliating the centrifuge and Iran's nuclear energy program
That is a child game, or?
I want to tell you how we have found this.
When we started our research at xnet six months ago, it was entirely unknown, what was the meaning and purpose of this design.
The only thing we knew is very complicated in terms of the windows, part of the threat, making countless disintegration of day-vulnerabilities.
And it seemed to have something to do with these horrors, such real-time control systems.
The pathogens our attention, and we began a laboratory project in which we convened our environment with Stuxnet infected, and examined this constructive.
Then something happened.
Stuxnet behaved like a laboratory rat that didn't like our cheese, but did not want to eat it.
That made no sense in my eyes.
And, having experimented with various kinds of cheese, I noticed that this is a targeted attack.
Entirely on a specific target.
The dropper actively fights on the horrors of the horbox when a special space was discovered, even if the special program that seeks to infect it.
And if not, xnet does nothing.
So, this really weanted my interest, and we began working to work almost around the clock, because I thought we don't know what the goal is.
For example, it may be, a us American plant, or a chemical plant in Germany.
So we should learn better about what the goal is.
So we extrapolate and depreciated the attack code, and found that he is restructured in two digital warheads – a smaller and larger one.
And we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all insiders'information.
They knew any bits and bytes they had to attack.
They probably even knew the workroll size of the machine worker.
So they knew everything.
And if you have heard that the drug traffickers are complex and high-tech, you can tell me, the benefits are a science for themselves.
It is far more demanding than anything we have ever seen.
Here they see a paper from this attack code.
We are talking about – roughly 15,000 lines of code.
Looks like old-fashioned detection.
And I want to tell you how we were able to get out of this code.
So, after what we sought first, system-functioning regimes were called, because we know what they do.
And then we sought tibetan and data structures and tried to link them with the real world – with potential targets in the real world.
So we needed theories about these goals that we have been able to show or disagree.
To showcase these theories, we recall that it is definitely a highly leveraged sabotage, it must act a high-quality goal, and is very likely in Iran, because most infections were reported there.
Now, there are no several thousand goals in this area.
Indeed, it amounts to the bullying nuclear power plant and the nato urgently enrichment facility.
So I said to my assistants, "Bring me a list of all experts on centrifuges and power plants from our tribe."
And I called them and tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise with what we had found in the code and data.
And that worked very well.
So it was possible to link the small digital warhead with rotorily taxation.
The rotor is this moving part of the centrifuge, the black object they see.
And if you manipulated the speed of this rower, you are indeed able to break the rotor, finally, to explode centrifuge.
What we have found is that the target of the attack was, indeed, to allow it to happen slowly and entrenched – apparently in trying to prevent maintenance engineers, so that they would not be able to get them quickly.
The big digital warhead – we received a glimpse by watching very data and data structures.
So, for example, the number 164 highlights this code; you cannot overlook it.
I began working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in nato, and found that they are structured in so-called cascades, and each kade contains 164 centrifuges.
So that made sense, it fit together.
And it became even better.
These centrifuges are divided into Iran in 15 levels.
And are they what we found in the attack code?
An almost identical structure.
So again, the fit really did well.
And this gave us great confidence for what we studied here.
Now, they do not understand me wrong, which didn't be so easy.
These results have been achieved through several weeks of hard work.
And we often ran into a impasse and had to resume.
In any case, we found that both digital warheads actually taxed and the same goal, but from different directions.
The small warhead takes over a cascade, and the rotors slows, and the big warhead takes up with six kades in interaction and manipulating valves.
So, in the great and whole, we are very confident that we actually have what the goal is.
It is nato, and it is only nato.
So we need not worry that other goals could be hit by xnet.
Here is something really cool that we have discovered – I have come from the swings.
There is the gray box, and on top, they see the centrifuges.
Now what this does is that it captures the inherent values of sensors – such as printing sensors and fertilizer sensors – and makes legitimate code available during the attack on the false data.
And, in fact, this false data from Stuxnet have been earlier.
So it is just as in Hollywood films, where, during the prosecution, the surveillance amera is being filled with previous video recordings.
That is cool, not true?
The idea here is obviously not only to overlisten machine employees in the control area.
Indeed, it is much more dangerous and aggressive.
The idea is to overlisten a digital security system.
We need digital safety systems where a human machine worker cannot react quickly enough.
So, in a plant, for example, when the big steam turbine becomes too fast, you need to open burden-valves within milliseconds.
Of course, this cannot be done by a human machine leader.
So here we need digital safety systems.
And if those are vulnerable, really bad things can happen.
The plant can explode.
And neither the machine leader nor the security system will notice.
That is scary.
But it will get worse.
And what I say now is very important.
Think about this. This attack is generalist.
He has nothing specifically to do with centrifuges, with uranium enrichment.
So, for example, he would work very well – at a plant or a car factory.
It is generational.
And you don't have to – when the attacker – you don't have to get the benefits about a usbstick, as we have seen at xnet.
Ordinary muddling technology could also be used.
It must only spread as far as possible.
And, after all, you get a cyber weapon of mass destruction.
That is the consequence that we must confront.
So, unfortunately, the biggest number of targets for such attacks is not in the middle east.
They are in the United states, Europe, and Japan.
So all of these green areas, these are the most favorable environments.
We must confront the consequences, and we are beginning to prepare better.
Thank you.
I have a question.
Ralph, it was much reported that people suspect that Mossad is the main organization.
Is that your mind?
Okay, do you really want to know this?
Yes.
My view is Mossad, but the driving force is not Israel.
So the driving force is the cyber superpower.
There is only one, and that is the United states – fortunately, happiness.
For otherwise, our problem would be even greater.
Thank you who have been afraid of us. Thank you Ralph.
I have spent the last few years putting me in situations that are usually very difficult and somehow dangerous.
I went to prison – difficult.
I worked in a coalmines – dangerous.
I filmed in war zones – difficult and dangerous.
And I have spent 30 days doing nothing like this – rather than beginning, a little hard in the middle, at the beginning.
In fact, I have faced most of my career in the terrible situations, and all of this is only for trying to examine social belang so that they are compelling and interesting, and I hope in a way that makes it more convenient and accessible for the audience.
So, when I knew that I would come here to see the world of branding and sponsoring in a database, I knew that I would make something different.
Some of them may have heard that a few weeks ago, I have turned a Bill on eBay.
I sent a few facebook news, some Twitter news, and I gave people the chance to give birth rights to my speech in 2011.
In fact, some happy people and firms, profit, and non-profit, received the unique opportunity – for I am sure that Chris Anderson will never let it again – buy the namesaw right to the talk that they just see that it had no title nor much evidence of what would be
So what you got was this: your name is here: my story that you don't know what the issue will be, and who could fly after the contents of the end to your ears, especially if I could stand stupid for your involvement.
But, aside, it is a very good media opportunity.
Do you know how many people see these lectures?
A lot.
That is, by the way, only the labor
So, despite this warning, I knew that anyone would buy the name rights.
If you had asked me this a year ago, I would not have been able to say that with certainty.
But in the new project I work, my new film, we examine the world of marketing, advertising.
As I said, over the years, I have taken over some terrible situations, but nothing could prepare me, I couldn't arm me to go to anything so difficult and so dangerous as with these types.
You know, I had the idea of a film.
What I want to do is a film about product, marketing, and advertising, financing the entire film by product sharing, marketing, and advertising.
And the film will mean "The greatest movie ever."
So what is happening in "The greatest movie selling" Is that everything, from the top to the bottom, is completely pooled – from the front sponsor they see in the film, which is x.
This brand, the Qualcomm stadium, the static center...
These people will be linked to the film indefinitely.
So will the film examine this whole idea – which is what? Indefinitely?
I am an redundant person.
That was more to emphasize.
It was "Eternal, forever."
But we will not only have the top x as a front-page cover, but we will surely ensure that we will sell any possible category in the film.
For example, we may sell a shoe, and it will become the greatest shoe they have ever borne...
The greatest car they have ever been the dangers of "The greatest movie ever selling," The greatest bek they have ever had a attention from "The greatest movie ever."
So, aside from showing that brands are part of life, indeed, to get them to finance the film?
And we actually show the process of how it works.
The goal of the entire film is transparency.
They will see the whole thing going on in the movie.
So this is the whole concept, the whole film, from the beginning to the end.
And I would be happy when CEG would help to achieve that.
You know, it is fun, because when I first heard it, it is the ultimate respect for the audience.
But I don't know how recipient people will be.
Do you have a perspective – I don't want to use "Angle, because it has a negative connotation – but do you know how to develop?
How much money is needed to realize this?
1.5 million.
I think it will be hard to meet it, but I think it is worth any case to address some genuinely familiar brands.
Who knows when the film comes out, we may see a horde volliot.
What do you believe how the answer will be?
The answer will be highly likely "No."
But is it a difficult cause for the film or a difficult cause for me?
Jk – both.
... So, not so optimistic.
So, my lord, can you help me? I need help.
I can help.
Okay.
Terrific.
We must consider what brands are.
Yes.
If you look at the people they have to do so...
There are some places that we can turn.
Imagine the camera.
I thought, "Put the camera out" Would mean that we wanted a background conversation.
It turned out that it actually meant "We want to do nothing with their film."
And, simply, all of these companies disappeared, one after the other.
No one wanted to do something with the film.
I was astonished.
They had absolutely nothing to do with the project.
And I was confused, because I thought that the whole concept is the idea of advertising to present your product as many people as possible, allowing so many people as possible.
In today's world, at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media – it is not the idea of being in this new exciting intermediation tool that the masses brings this news.
No, that was what I thought.
But they see the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake, and that was.
Indeed, no, it was not the mistake at all.
This would not have been a problem at all.
That would have been okay.
But what this image faces is a problem.
Watch transparency in Google search, this is one of the first images that seems.
I may really like your kind, Sergey Brin.
This was the problem: transparency – free of deception and cautions, simply to discover and understand, immediately; characterized by visibility and access to information, especially in terms of business practices – the last resort is certainly the biggest problem.
You know, we now hear a lot about transparency.
Our politicians say it, our president says, even our CEOs say it.
But if it is to be implemented, anything is changing.
But why? Transparency is frightening – such as this curious bear, who is still hosting.
It is unpredictable – like this strange land.
And it is also very risky.
What else is risky?
An entire skin cool Whip.
This is very risky.
So, when I started talking to companies, telling them that we wanted to tell this story, they said, "No, we want you to see a story.
We want you to see a story, but we just want you to tell our story. "
See when I was a child, and my father turned me to lies – and he is sitting and watching me with this view – he would say, "My son, there are three versions in every story.
There is your version, there is my version, and there is the real version. "
So they see this film, we wanted to tell the real version.
But, because only a firm prepared to help us – and only because I have known John bond and Richard Kirshenbaum for years – I found that I had to do it alone, I had to circumvent the mediesman and go to companies directly with my team.
So what they suddenly started to understand – or what I started to understand – was that when you start talking to these firms, the idea that your brand understands is a broader problem.
I have friends who make great Hollywood movies, and I have friends who make small floors of life movies like me.
And my friends who make great Hollywood movies say that the reason their films are so successful is to the brand partners they have.
And then my friends say that make small homegrown films, "Now how should we compete with these great gigantic Hollywood films?"
And the film is "The greatest movie ever sold."
So how exactly will we see Ban in the movie?
Whenever I make my way, and whenever I open the medical cabinet, they will see Ban deodorant.
Every time I ask someone, I can say, "Are you fresh enough for this interview?
When they do? They see a little nervous.
I want to help you calm.
So perhaps they should put a bit of this before the interview. "
And then we offer one of these great Bleak.
Either "Floral merger" Or a "Paradise winds," They will have the choice.
We are equipped for both men and women – firmly, roll-on, or a stick, whatever.
This is short-termed.
Now I can answer all their questions and give them an excuse.
We are a smaller brand.
As they have spoken about the smaller movies, we are a challenger.
So we don't have a budget like other brands.
So doing so – you know, people remember Ban – that is somehow why we are interested.
What words would they describe Ban?
Ban is raw.
That is a great question.
Woman: superior technology
Technology is not the way to describe what someone is doing under the acheruries.
We speak of bold, fresh.
I think "Fresh" Is a super word that this category is really too positive power, in contrast to "Smell and moisture."
It holds fresh.
As we keep them fresh – better fresher, more fresher, three times fresh.
Such causes have a more positive impact.
And that is a million corporation.
What about me? What about the slides?
I must speak to the man in the streets that are as I, otto normal consumers.
They should tell me something about my brand.
How would you describe your brand?
Yahoo, my brand?
I don't know.
I really like brave dress.
Woman: 1980's revival is hit by scaterally, except on the bad day.
Now what is the brand Gerry?
Exceptional.
I think the genre, the style I have, is arguably "Dark glamour."
I may have many black colors, many horror ones, and so.
But I usually have an excuse, such as solar goggles, or jewelry, and so.
A woman: if Dan would be a brand, he would probably be a classic cabrio.
Man 2: the brand I am would say, porous fly.
Woman 2 – part of the hippie, yogi, part of the unicyn girl – I don't know.
Man 3: I am the musetype.
I sell plants throughout the country.
So I think that my brand is my brand.
That is my brand in my small, distorted industry.
Man 4: my brand is bumpy because I were more willing.
Man 5: the failed alcoholic brand
Does this happen?
A lawyer: I am an annament brand.
I am Tom.
Now we cannot all be the tom-brand, but I often look at the intersection of dark glamour and negligible fly.
And what happened was that I needed an expert.
I needed someone who could enter my head who could really help me understand what it calls the "Brand personality."
So I found a company called Olson Zaltman in Pittsburg.
They have helped companies, like Nestle, Febreze, Hallmark, discover this brand figure.
If they could do it, they could certainly help me.
They have brought their images, yes?
I have that. The first picture is my family.
Tell me just a little about how to relate to their thoughts and feelings about them themselves
These are the people that shape my worldview.
Tell me about this world.
Md – this world? I think the world in which one lives – like people around one, the friends who live, the family that lives, the work, and so on.
All of these things come and start from a place, and for me, begin with my family in west Virginia.
What is the next one they want to talk about.
Next, this was the most beautiful day of my life.
In what context is this to the thoughts and feelings of themselves?
It is as I like to be.
I may be things that are different.
I may think things that are special. I may be special things.
Do you tell me about the "Why" Phase – what brings us?
What is the machete? In what case they are now?
Why is it important to start again? What does the red?
Tell me a little about this part.
A bit more about them, not they are.
What other metamorphosis have undergone?
… that does not have to be afraid. In what kind of roller coaster ride?
Eeee! No, thank you!
Thanks to its patience.
Yes. Well.
Yes, I don't know what this will happen.
There were a lot of lunacy.
The first thing I saw was this idea that her brand personality ekti has two separate but complementary sides – the Morgan trace mark was an eight-pronged / brand.
Complement very well.
And I think there is almost a contradiction.
And I think some firms will focus only on strength rather than both.
Many firms tend to avoid – and this is human nature – things that they are not certain to avoid them will fear these elements, and that they welcome them, and they are actually turning them into something positive for themselves, and that is a merger.
What other brands act so?
The first is a classic apple, apple.
And they can also see it, target, Wii, Mini Coopers, and JetBlue.
Now there has been stamped and eight stamps that come and go, but a misguided brand is a pretty strong cause.
An eight-pronged brand. How is your brand?
If someone asked them to describe their brand identity, how would they?
They are a bottom-up toll? Are they something the blood in wall pilgrids?
Or are they a top-down toll?
Are they something a little quiet, reserve, more conservative?
According to these attributes, fresh as the fresh prince, are temporary, adventurous, and appealing to erflynn, amid, and agil, profan, magically, and mystical like alers.
Or are they more like a top-down toll?
Are they eight and monarchs like 007?
Are they established, traditionally, nursing, protector, are complacent like Mary?
Are they reliable, stable, family, safe, borrowed, sacred, and how the Dalai Lama or Yoda?
Over the course of the film, we had more than 500 firms that were up and down companies, saying "No" Because they did not want to be part of the project.
They, above all, wanted nothing to do with this film, because they had no control of the finished product.
But 17 Star partners who were willing to forego this control that had wanted to do with someone as eight and betrayal as I, and who, after all, were able to tell us stories that we could not usually have told – stories that a value usually would never support.
They empowered us to tell the history of neuromarketing, as we tell the story in this film that today, he used mris to stick the lustcenters of the brain to make both advertising and films.
We exports to sao Paulo, where foreign advertising has been banned.
Across the city, no poster man has been running for five years, no poster.
And we exports in school districts where companies are moving their way toward impoverished schools across America.
The incredible thing for me is that the projects I received most feedback, or where I had the greatest success, are those where I directly interact with things.
And that is what these brands have done.
For they reversed the central man, they reversed the agencies, saying that agencies may not really have their interest.
I will negotiate directly with artists.
I will work with him and create something completely different that people consider that our worldview challenge.
And how was it for them? What did it succeed?
Now that the Sundance film had starved Festival, we can look at this time.
According to Burrelles, the first first in January, and since – and that is not even the whole thing – there were 900 million calls for this film.
Indeed, this includes only a 2 / 2 period.
This is just online – no press, no television.
The film was not yet delivered.
There is not even online. No streaming.
He has not gotten out in other countries.
Finally, the film has gained a very large momentum.
And that is not bad for a project, with almost every advertising agency that we recommended to give their customers their fingers.
Something I believe about is that when you take its chance, risks are taking place in these risks.
I believe that if you keep people from it, you get them closer to failing.
I believe that if you trained your employees to avoid risks, you are prepared to gain a profit.
I feel that we need to encourage people to take risks.
We need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities that they might scare.
After all, as we move, we should welcome fear.
We should put the bear in the cage.
If they welcome fear, they welcome the risk.
Each big rebuke full, we welcome the risk.
Finally, we should welcome transparency.
Today, more than ever, a bit of honesty brings us very far.
And that said that, with honesty and transparency, my total talk "Was welcomed transparency," They show my good friends of EMC, paying $7100 for the name rights on eBay.
Big data are being transformed into large opportunities for organizations around the world.
EMC's welcome transparency
Thank you.
Now Morgan, in the name of transparency: what has happened to the $7100?
That is a great question.
I have a check in my pocket on the top organization of the TED organization, the sapling-foundation – a check of $7100 to finance my TED performance next year.
My name is Amit.
18 months ago, I made something different with Google, and I reacted to make something of museums and art. My chief who is today gave me green light.
And it took 18 months.
A lot of negotiations and stories I can tell you, with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries.
But I will focus on the screening.
There are plenty of stories about why we have done so.
I think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access.
I grew up in India.
I became a great education – I am not complaining – but I had no access to many museums and works of art.
When I went to visit these museums, I began to learn a lot.
And, while I worked for Google, I tried to make this yearning – accessible to art – with technology combined.
We formed a team, a great team, and we began with this.
I would probably start with the demonstration, and tell you some interesting things that happened since the start.
So you just Google leartproject.Com
All of these museums can be seen.
With the Uffizi, MoMA, the Hermitage, the Rijks, Van Gogh.
I even come to one of my favorite, the Metropolitan museum of new York.
There are two ways of pure – very simple.
Click, and wumms are at this museum.
It doesn't matter where they are – Bombay, Mexico, it doesn't make a difference.
You go around and amused.
They want to be oriented in the museum?
Open the card, and step up with a click.
In the midst, they want to end the decline.
Only more fun.
Infringe them.
Thank you, but the best is coming.
So I am here to one of my favorite images of appointees of Pieter breugel in the met.
I see this plusal sign.
When the museum gave us the picture, you click on it.
This is now one of the images.
This is all metadata.
Those who really care about art can click here – but I can click the road now.
This is one of the images we have stuck with the so-called giisxel technology.
For example, this picture has about 10 billion points, I believe.
A lot of people ask me, "What do you get for 10 billion points?"
I will show you now:
You can quickly seize purely and binge.
They see something brave here.
I love this guy; his expression is unaffordable.
But then they really want deep.
So I began playing around, and found that something is happening there.
And I thought, "Moment that sounds interesting."
I was close to ran, and slowly observed that these children actually hit something.
I was a little research at a few known at the met, and I found that it was a game called squail, which is a goose on the façade with a stock.
Apparently it was right.
I don't know why they did, but I learned something about it.
To be fully close, you can go up to the cracks.
Just to tell them, zoome, so I see what you get.
Here we were, and this is the paintings.
But the best comes – in a second.
Let us move quickly to MoMA, again in new York.
Another favorite picture of me, Star night.
The previous example was to find details.
But what if you want to see pinselstriche?
And what only if you want to see how Van Gogh created this masterpiece?
You can really go in.
I would seize into one of my favorite stiff of this image until I am really among the cracks.
That is Star night, never seen so before.
Now I will show my favorite function.
There are many more, but I lack the time.
This is the really cool part, meaning assemblies.
Each of them, regardless of whether rich or poor, whether they have a good house – does not matter.
They can release and create their own museum online – from all of these images they can put their own collection.
Simply, they go into it – and I have created this, meaning the power of the zoom – they can leapfrog around.
This is the alleged ', in the national nostalgia.
They can send everything with comments, send their friends, and begin entertainment about what they feel when they view these masterworks.
Finally, I think, the main cause for me is that all the wonderful things are not
They don't even think of museums.
Perhaps I should not say that.
They come from artists.
And that was a humility for me.
I believe that we will meet with this digital medium of art and represent them properly online.
The biggest question I have recently asked: "Have you made it to replicate the experience of a museum visit?"
The answer is no.
Complement experience.
That is why thank you.
Thank you.
This is an image of their brain. Your brain can be divided into two salves.
That is half the left, the logical side, and then half the right that is the intuitive side.
If we were to measure a measure of each hemisphere's appointments, we could be their brain.
For example, it would be someone who is fully logical.
This would be someone entirely intuitively.
Now, where would they position their brain on this scale?
Some of us may have decided to one of these extremes, but I think that, for most people in the audience, your brain looks like this – with a high apse that is at the same time in the two hemisphere
It is not as if they are both exclusive or the sort of thing.
They can logic and intuitively.
And I see myself as one of the people, together with most other experimental physicists, who need a good share of logic to bring together the complex ideas.
But at the same time, we need a good body of intuition to launch experiments.
How do we develop this intuition? Now we love to play with things.
So we go out and play it, and then look like it, and then we are beginning to develop our intuition.
Basically, they do the same.
So one of the intuitions they have developed over the years is probably that a thing can be just at the same time.
I mean, it may sound strange to think that a thing is at the same time in two different places, but they were not born with this idea.
I recall watching a child at play on a land threshold.
He was a small child, not very good, and he was constantly falling.
But I bet that the game with the soil threshold taught him a very valuable lesson: the big things don't leave you easy, and that they remain in a place.
And that is a great conceptual model of the world, so long as they are not a single physicist.
It would be a terrible model for a disciplinary physicist, because they are not playing with natural slumps, but with these small particles.
And when they play with their particles, they find all kinds of strange things – as they fly directly through walls, or that they can be two different places at the same time.
So they wrote all of these observations, and called the theory of quantum theory.
This was the level of physics a few years ago; it needed quantum theory to describe the small particles, tiny.
But it did not need them to describe the big everyday objects around us.
This has not raised my intuition, and perhaps only because I don't perform so often with particles.
Well, I sometimes play with them, but not very often.
And I have never seen it.
I mean no one has ever seen a particles.
But my logical side did not deal with it.
For if all of these particles are made out of particles, and all of these particles follow the rules of quantum theory, should not be followed by all the rules of quantum theory?
I don't see why this should not be so.
So I would feel clear better about the whole cause if we could somehow show that everyday items follow the rules of quantum theory.
So I made it just a few years ago.
I created one.
This is the first object they can see in the quantum mechanical position.
So what we look at here is a tiny computer chip.
And they can see this green point there.
That is the piece of metal I will talk about.
This is an image of the property.
This is what I see. We look at the center here.
And here, a very large amount of absorption of this small piece of metal is.
So what we see is a small piece of metal like a springboard, and it is above the edge.
So I made this thing in a similar way that makes a computer chip.
I went to a clean space with new hubs, rapping 100 hours into all the big devices.
For the last little, I had to build my own machine – in order to get the swimming pool and get the thing.
This thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition, but it needs a little help to do it.
Look, let me give you an analogy.
They know how uneasy it is to be in a crowded lift?
I mean, if I am in an elevator alone, then I make all kinds of strange things up, but then I hear other people rising, and I listen to all of these things, because I don't want to harass them, or, frankly, they are.
So, greenpeace says that unmoving objects feel the same.
The drivers of unmoving objects are not only people, but also the light that it seems and the wind that is over and the heat of the region.
And so we knew that if we wanted to see that the piece of metal acts into quantum mechanically, we had to flatter the entire travelers.
And that is what we did.
We turned off the light, put it in a vacuum, and sausing the entire air and cooling it up to almost now, entirely in the elevator alone, the piece of metal was free to behave like always.
So we measured its movement.
We found that it is really strange.
Rather than simply calm, it vibrated, the way it vibrated was roughly the same thing here – as an expanding and drawing bubble together.
In which we gave him a small schubs, we could prompt to vibrate at the same time, not to vibrate – something that allows only in the quantum sheet.
So what I just tell you is what truly fantastic.
What does it mean for an object at the same time, not to vibrate?
Let us think about atoms.
So the first case: all of the trillions of atoms from which the piece of metal is still there and, at the same time, the same atoms are moving to and off
Only too accurate times, they agree.
The rest of the time are delokalized.
That means that every atom is at the same time in two different places, which simultaneously means that the entire piece of metal is in two different places.
I think that the right is cool.
Really.
This was worth keeping me in clean space for all of this year, as they review the scope of a single atom and that piece of metal is roughly as the difference between the metal and them.
So if a single atom can be in two different places, this piece of metal can be in two different places, why not it?
I think that is just what my logical side says.
So, imagine that they would be at the same time in several places, how would they feel?
How would your consciousness circumvent your body in the room?
There is another aspect of history.
When we poured it into the light, looking at the box and the box, we saw the piece of metal was always in a slice.
And, so I had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are really just quent objects that are collectively ferred in a small space.
They hear a lot talk about how quantum theory says that everything is linked to everything.
Now that is not quite right.
There is even more to do so.
It is so that these linkages with all of the things around them literally define who they are, and that is the deep and strange of quantum change.
Thank you.
In 2007, I decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development.
It should be our goal that when families think about where they want to live and work, they are given the possibility of choosing between at least one hand of different cities, all in competition for new residents.
At the moment, we are far from this goal.
There are billions of people in developing countries that are not even a single city that they would welcome.
But the astounding of cities is that they are so much more value than it costs to build them.
So we could simply disarm the world, perhaps even hundreds of new cities.
That may sound absurd for them, if they have never thought about new cities.
But simply swap the construction of housing against cities.
Imagine that half of the people who want to live in housing would do so; the other half do not yet.
They could try to expand the capacity of existing housing.
But they know what they would be agreed to avoid complaints in these homes and their environment.
So it turns out to be very hard to follow all of these enlargement.
But one could go to a fully new place, a fully new apartment bloc, assuming that laws would support such a construction and not stop it.
So I have proposed that governments create new areas that offer enough space for a city and gave them a name: charter cities.
Later, I found that, for example, the same time, Japan, and Octavio have thought about the challenge of reform in Honduras.
They knew that every year, roughly 75,000 hononians leave their country to move to the United states, and they wanted to know what they could do to ensure that these people can stay in their country and can do the same in hong duras.
This is where jafour said to Octavio, "What happens if we want to run an undefeated area of our country - what if we simply want to make it a message of the American message, a part of the Canadian botship and if people are to work under Canada or the United states.
In the summer of 2009, Honduras suffered a fierce constitutional crisis.
On the next planned elections, Pepe Lobo won in a reversal that promised both innovation and retaliation.
He demanded Octavio to become his staff.
In the meantime, I paved me on a speech at a recent trip.
By improving, trying, and examining consumers, I have tried to reduce this complicated concept of the city to the key elements.
The first point is the importance of laws, laws that determine that existing homeowners must not disrupt.
We owe great attention to new technologies, but progress requires technology and laws, and usually laws that hold us back.
In the fall of 2010, a friend of Guatemala Octavio sent the link to the advice.
That, in turn, showed him jafour.
The two called me.
And said, "Let us present the chairman of our country!"
So, in December, we met the chroom for a hotels in Miami.
I have tried to make clear how valuable cities are to how much value they are than they costs.
And I used this chart to show how valuable roand is at a place like new York, thinking that an area is worth thousands of dollars per square meter in some cases.
But it was a rather abstract discussion at a time when there was a pause, Octavio said, "Paul, we may look at the story."
So the story was very simple in the form that a charter city is a place whose country is in the early uninhabited country, a founding treaty that sets the laws that govern there and the people can decide either to live under these rules.
That is why I was asked by the president of Honduras, who said that we must achieve this project that it is important, and that this is the way to guide our country.
I was asked to come after Tegucigalpa and keep a lecture at the fourth and fifth January.
So I gave another deal with facts that includes a chart like this, which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a much value in a city it needs to be a very large city.
This is a picture of the city of Denver, and the outlined the new airport built in Denver.
This airport alone has a 100 square mile area.
So I have tried to convince Hondurans if one wants to build a new city, one must start to square kilometers with at least 1,000 kilometers
This is more than 250 thousand tomorrow.
In polite, everyone applauded.
Spectators were very serious and attention.
The congress's head came to the stage, saying, "Professor Romer, I thank you for her presentation, but perhaps we could look at the story.
I have him on my laptop. "
So I have hinged, and they have played the story.
And I have concluded that a new city offers new opportunities for people.
There would be the possibility of living in a city that would be in hong duras rather than hundreds of miles away in the north.
And a new city also includes new opportunities for executives.
The government's leaders in Honduras would depend on aid from partner countries, they could benefit from their partner countries that would support the legislation for the charter and the enforcement that everyone can trust the charter.
And president Lobo's recognition was that the certainty of enforcement of which I thought was a way to attract foreign investors and expand that city could be equal to all parties in hong duras, which have been afraid and mistrust for many years.
We have dangers in an area.
This picture is from this place.
It is hard to square kilometers.
And, shortly after, on January 19, they voted for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional regime that is permissible for specific development areas.
In a country that has just a major crisis behind itself, congress was elected for this constitutional change with 124.
All parties, all parties, supported this.
To be part of the constitution, but it must be approved twice by congress.
On February 17th, it was approved for the second time with 114 to vote.
Immediately after this election, between the twenty-first and 24, a delegation of roughly 30 hunger to the two places of the world that were most interested in increasing urban construction business.
A place is South Korea.
This is a picture of a large, new city centers built in South Korea, large as the city center of ston.
All they can see on this picture was built within four years after it took four years to receive permits.
Singapore is Singapore's other place that
Two cities have already been built in China, and the third is in preparation.
So, if you think about it, it is where we are now.
They already have a construction land; and they are already considering this area for the second city.
It is already working on a legal system that allows managers to participate, and it will also work in an external legal system.
A country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the dearth mission of the criminal court.
Urban tedesigner and farmer are also very interested.
They even get funding with it.
One thing that they already know has been settled, there are many rents.
There are many companies who would like to be in America, especially in a place with a free-trade zone, and there are many people who would like to live there.
Around the world, there are 700 million people who argue that they want to live permanently on another place.
A million people leave Latin America annually and migrate to the United states.
Many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to work to suchen- sometimes it is alone mothers who need to earn enough money to afford food and clothing.
Unfortunately, it is sometimes children who try to find their parents who, in some cases, have no longer seen since a decade.
So what is it for an idea of building a completely new city in Honduras?
Or even duzend of these cities, or spread hundreds around the world?
So what is it for an idea that any family has a choice between several cities that compete for new residents?
This is an idea worth spreading.
My friends of Honduras have asked me to say, TED.
Do you know how many decisions make them a typical day?
Do you know how many decisions make in a typical week?
I recently made a survey of more than 2,000 Americans, and the average number of decisions that are angabated according to a typical American in a day is 70.
Moreover, a recent study with CEOs watching CEOs for a week.
And these scientists have simply documented the various issues that these CEOs employ, and how much time they spend decisions related to issues.
And they have found that an average CEO is busy at 139 tasks this week.
Each of these issues were, of course, many smaller choices.
50% of their decisions were taken within nine minutes or less.
Only about 12% of their decisions they need an hour or more of their time.
Think of their own decisions.
Do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of those in an hour?
How good do you think you are to manage the decisions?
Today, I want to talk about one of our modern era's biggest decision-making problems.
I want to talk about the problem and about some possible solutions.
Now, when I talk about this problem, I will ask you some questions, and I want to know their answers.
If I ask you a question, raise you, because I am blind, only if you want to burn some calories.
Otherwise, if I ask you a question, and your answer is yes, my first question for today is: are you willing to hear something about decision-making problems?
Thank you.
When I was a graduate student at Stanford university, I went to this very exclusive intermediation; at least it was truly exclusive at the time.
It was a Laden called the Draeger.
This business, it was almost as an amusement park.
They had 250 different kinds of diets and ctares and more than 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables, and more than two dozen different kinds of water – and that was at a time when we actually refused surrogate water.
I loved this business; but at a time I asked me, you know how to buy something?
Here is the ooil-going.
They had more than 75 different varieties of ooil, including those who were included in cages, who came from a thousand years old days of life.
So I decided one day to visit filiocites, and I asked the head, "This model works that they really offer all these possibilities?"
And he showed the bush invitations of tourists who arrived each day and usually had their cameras.
We decided to do an experiment, and we chose marmelade for our experiment.
This is where its marches are rising.
They had 348 different kinds of marade.
We put a small precious feedback directly at the entrance of the business.
We have put six different flavors of marade or 24 different flavors, and we saw two things: first, I would remain more people and try marade?
More people have remained if 24 were, about 60% when six were, about 40%.
And then we watched in what case people bought a glass of marade.
Now we saw the reversal.
Of the people who remained 24, only three% actually bought a glass of marade.
Of the people who remained as six, now we saw that 30% of them actually bought a glass of marade.
Now, if you expect it, the people bought six times a glass of marade who had six to choose than if they had 24 choices.
Now not to choose glass of marade is likely to be good for us – at least it is good for our taille – but it turns out that decision-making problems affect us with very solvent decisions.
We don't decide, even if it comes to our own best interests.
So, on the issue of the day, financial saving
I will now describe you a study that I conducted with Gur Huberman, Emir Kamenica, Wei Jang, in which we saw decisions for austerity plans for the retirement of nearly one million Americans from around $350 plans across the United states.
And what we saw was whether the number of funds on a pension saving plan was possible, the 401 plan that affects more to be saved for tomorrow.
And we found that there was indeed a context.
In these plans, we had about 657 plans that offered people anything between two to 59 different funds.
And what we discovered was that the more fund was offered that, indeed, participation was lower.
If you look at the extreme, the plans offered by the two funds had a part-level participation in the 1970's – still not as high as we want.
In the plans that offered nearly 60 funds, the United kingdom now fell to roughly the sixth percentage.
Now it turns out that even if you choose more options, it has negative consequences.
For example, the people who decided to participate were more likely to be the more opportunities they were available, the more they avoided to choose stocks and funds.
The more opportunities they were available, the more they had their money in pure monetary markets.
None of these extreme decisions, one belongs to the decisions someone would recommend when their future financial well-being is important.
Now, over the last decade, we have watched three key negative consequences for people who offer more and more choices with them.
They postpone the decision – postpone them, even when it comes to their own best interest.
They are making worse choices – worse financial and worse medical decisions.
They are more likely to choose what they make themselves less satisfied, even if they make it objective.
The main reason for this is that we may be ignorant about viewing these huge regale of mayonaise, moribund, and marade, but we can't effectively draw the comparisons and exclusions, and, indeed, choose something of the fantastic supply.
So what I want to propose today is four simple techniques – techniques that we have tested in various kinds of research places – that they can simply apply in their business.
First, limit.
They have heard it before, but it was never more true than it is today.
People are always worried when I say "Limit."
They always worry that they are losing the ground.
But, in fact, we see more and more that if they are willing to limit, and the unimportant equitable possibilities will become loose, then there is a rise in sales, the cost is reduced, and there is a improvement in decision-making perception.
When Proctor and Gamble peaked 26 to 15 reductions, they experienced a 10% increase in sales.
When the golden cat corporation became rid of its 10 of the worst selling plants, they saw that profits rose by 87% – a result of the increase in sales and reducing costs.
You know that the average supermakrt today offers 45,000 products.
The typical Walmart provides 100,000 products today.
But the nineteenth-largest supermarket today is Aldi, and they offer only 1,400 products – a kind of tomato sauces in doses.
Now in the world of austerity, I believe one of the best examples recently concluded in the market about how best to manage the alternatives was something that David Laibson has shaped very strong, it is a program offered at Harvard.
Every individual Harvard is now receiving automatically in a lifetime fund.
Those who really want to choose are offered by 20 funds are not 300 or more funds.
Do you know how people often say, "I don't know how to limit it.
It is all important ways. "
And the first thing I ask the employees, "Tell me how the possibilities vary from one another.
And if their employees cannot dismiss them, their customers cannot. "
Now, before we started noon, I had a conversation with Gary.
And Gary said that he would be willing to offer all of the people in this audience a all-inclusive vacation to the world's most beautiful street.
Here is a description of the streets.
And I want to read them.
And now I give you a few seconds to read it, and then I urge you to applaud you when you are willing to accept Gary's offer.
Okay. Everyone is willing to accept Gary 'offer.
Are everyone?
Good, let me show you something more.
They knew it was a trick, or?
Now who is ready for this trip.
I think I have heard more hands.
Good.
The fact that they thought was objective at the first time more information than in the second time, but I would dare ask that they found it more real when they were the second time.
For the images had a real sense for them.
What brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of overburdening decision-making, is the concrete tightening.
It is about people to understand the difference between ways to understand what consequences are associated with individual opportunities, and the consequences must be felt vigorously and concrete.
Why do people spend 15% more on average if they use a ec-card or a credit card than cash?
Because we don't really feel money.
And it turns out that if it feels like something concrete, it is a very good tool for people to save more.
So, in a study that I have done with Shlomo Benartzi and Alessandro, we have made a study with the people – employees working for all of them – and these people were all in a plan to participate in their retirement.
And, while this assembly, we have left this assembly just as it was always, we have added a small matter.
The micromism we have inflicted was that we have asked people to think about all positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money.
In which we did this simple cause, there was a 20% increase in participation, and there was a rise in the number of people willing to save or a 4% increase in the amount they were prepared to pay for the savings account.
The third technology: categorization
We can better deal with more categories than with more choices.
Here, for example, a study that we have made in a timely fashion.
It turns out that the number between 331 different types of journals can vary by 664 journals.
But do you know what?
If I show them 600 journals and chart them in 10 categories or I show them 400 journals, and they share them in 20 categories, they believe that I gave them more choices and better selection than I gave them the 400 pages of which if I gave them the 600.
For the categories tell me how I can separate them.
There are two different jewelry lines.
One is "Jazz" And the other is "Swing."
If you think that the left's fire is Swing and the checks are Jazz, you are applauding in the hands.
Okay, there are some.
If you think that the Jazz on the left is Jazz, and the one on the right is Swing, you please applaud.
Okay, a few more.
Now it turns out that they are right.
The leftist side is Jazz and the one on the right is Swing, but do you know what?
This is a highly unuseful scheme.
The categories must say something to voters, not the choice.
And they often see this problem when they look at all of these funds'long lists.
Who do you want to tell?
My fourth technology: I condition complexity.
It turns out that we can indeed deal with more information than we think we need to simplify them only.
We must slowly increase complexity.
I show you an example of what I mean.
Let us take a very, very complicated decision: buy a car.
Here is a German automaker that offers them the possibility of reforming their car entirely.
They must make 62 different choices to design their car altogether.
Now these decisions differ in the number of choices they offer per decision.
Autocolor, foreign color of cars – I have 56 possibilities.
Engines, gears – four possibilities.
What I do now is I will fall in order that make decisions.
Half of the customer is coming from the many ways to make 56 autocolor the small means of four drivers.
The other half of the customer comes from little options, four drivers, at 56 car colors, many opportunities.
What do I look at?
How interests they are.
If they always use the standard selection of the decision, that means that they will be overwhelmed, the most thorough, I lose them.
What they find is that the people who go from the many to the low electoral parties always and again choose standard choice.
We lose them.
If you go from the little choice to the many, they remain in the process.
It is the same information. It is the same number of options.
The only thing I have done is to change the sequence in which this information is presented.
When I deal with the simple initial, I learn how to choose.
Even though the drivers choose nothing to tell me about my preferences in domestic equipment, it is still preparing me to select.
It also enables me to be in excitement about the great product I convene, and so I am willing to induce myself with interest.
Let me wrap up.
I have told them of four techniques that mitigate the problem of overburdening decision-making – they will become the redundant alternatives; in concrete ways – make it real; categorically; we can better deal with more categories, less opportunities; prepare for complexity.
Each of these techniques I describe today is designed to help them manage the opportunities – good for them, they can use them for themselves, good for the people they provide service.
For I believe that the key to the best choice is that one is electoral choice.
And the more we are to choose voters, the better we will be able to exercise the art of the decision.
Thank you.
Hi. I am Kevin Allocca, trends--youtube managers, watching YouTube videos.
That is true.
Today, we want to talk about how videos become viral, and then why.
We all want to be his celebrity, singer, comedians, when I was young, that seemed so difficult.
But web videos have enabled everyone or all of our creative activities to be fully famous in part of the world's culture.
Each individual may be famous about the Internet until next Saturday.
But on YouTube, more than 48 hours per minute are loaded.
Once again, only a tiny percentage of ever viral will look at thousands of times, and thus the cultural moment.
So how does this work?
Three things: tastemaker, participation communities, and unexpected.
So, then we want.
Oh my god. Oh my god. My god.
Oh my god!
Ah!
A frenzy, wwww!
Last year, Vasquez sened this video that he filmed before his house in the Yosemite park.
23 million times have been seen in 2010.
This chart shows how it looked when the video was first popular last summer.
Indeed, bear did not want to make a viral video.
He simply wanted to share one rain.
Because you do so when you mean Yosemite mountain bear.
He had a lot of natural videos.
And this video was actually sent in January.
What happened here?
There was Jimmy Kimmel.
Jimmy Kimmel slowed the tweet that made the video so popular after all.
After all, tastemaker like Jimmy Kimmel presents us with new and interesting things, showing a big audience.
It's Friday; get down on Friday. Everybody's s looking forward to the weekend; gettin down on Friday; you don't bet that we would lead these entertainment without talking about this video, I hope.
Rebecca blacks "Friday" Is one of the most popular videos of the year.
It was seen nearly 200 million times this year.
The chart looked like this.
Just as the "Double buoyant" Seems to have done.
What happened this day?
Now it was Friday that is true.
If you want to know, these other leaders are also free days.
But what about this day, this particular Friday?
Now, Tosh.0 spent many blogs starting to write about it.
Michael J. Nelson by science Theater was a first joke in Twitter.
Importantly, a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view with a large audience, accelerating the process.
Then this community was among people who shared this great insiderwitz, and started talking about it and playing around.
Now there are 10,000 parochials of "Friday on YouTube.
In the first seven days, there has been a parochium for each individual living ag.
Unlike the one-off conversation of the twentieth century, the community's participation is our way to become part of this phenomenon – either by distributing it or making something new.
"Nyan cat" Is animation and music in the final loop.
That is easy.
This year, it was seen almost 50 million times.
And if you hold that crazy, you should know that there is a three-hour version that was seen four million times.
Even cats look at this video.
Cats look at cats watching this video.
What matters is creativity, which is in the Internet culture of tech and geeks.
There were blueprints.
Someone made an old-fashioned version of it.
And then it became international.
A whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it a fool joke that we can all participate.
Today, we are not simply enjoying something we are doing.
Who could have done all this?
Who could have predicted "Double booms" Or Rebecca black or "Nyan cat"?
What scripts can you write in which things are so urgent?
In a world where every minute 2 video is put up video material, only unique and unexpected can emerge as these videos.
I was not particularly interested in my mind when a friend said I should look at this video, a guy protesting on the streets in new York.
I got a criminal penalty, because I am not on the cycling path, but the disabilities often do not allow a decent ride on the cycling path.
Since this was entirely surprising and humorous, Casey niestonia's joke, and his argument was seen 5 million times.
This approach applies to everything we do creatively.
All of this leads us to the big question...
What does this mean?
A frenzy.
What does this mean?
Tastemaker, creative communities, entirely unexpected, are the traits of a new kind of media and culture that everyone has access and popularity in the audience.
As said, one of the biggest stars – Justin Bieber – made his early YouTube.
No one must give your ideas green light.
Today, we all feel as homeowners of our pop culture.
And these are not the characteristics of the old media, and they do not meet today's media, but they will determine the course of the future.
Thank you.
How can I talk about three generations in a decade ago about the interconnection between women, and how the amazing strength of this interconnectedness occurred in a four-year girl, when it lived with her small sister, her mother, and her grandmother five days and nights behind a small girl in the Chinese sea.
History is not over.
It is a puzzle that is still combined.
I want to tell you about some of the reasoning elements.
Imagine the first play: a man who burns his life.
He is a writer, a man whose entire life was held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home.
If they hold him to the invasion of the communists in Saigon, as he must admit that his life was a single waste.
The words, as long as his friends, now spotted him.
He drew back to the quiet.
He died, broken by history.
He is my grandfather.
I have never met him personally.
But our lives are so much more than our memories.
My grandmother never forgotten my life.
I had to ensure that it was not free, and my job was to learn that history had been trying to break us, but we survived.
The next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat in the early morred amounts quietly to sea.
My mother was 18, when her father died – already in a arranged marriage, with two small girls.
For them, their lives had a task: the flight of their family and a new life in Australia.
It was entirely excluded that it could fail.
After a four-year and movie saga glitt, a boat still on sea as fishing boat.
All adults were aware of the risks.
They were afraid of pirates, rape, and death.
Like most adults on the boat, my mother contributed a small toxic bottle.
In imprisonment, my sister and I, then you and my grandmother refuse to accept it.
My first memories are from this boat – the plug of the motors, claiming each wave on the bug, much and empty horizon.
I don't recall the pians who came many times, but let me fool the man's death courage on our boat, or not to launch the engine's exit six hours.
But I recall the lights of the oil platform from Malaysian coast, and the young man who broke together and died, the end of the trip was too much for him, and the tastes of the first appoint of rock that gave me one of the men on the platform.
No bone has ever been shut down.
After three months in a refugee camp, we are in Melbourne.
And the next game is four women in three generations that build a new life together.
We were shattered in football Ray, one of the working-class people whose population is from immigrant classes.
Unlike in the entrenched middle classes, whose existence was entirely unknown to me, there was no demanding thinking in football scray.
Rumors came from the rest of the world.
And the detainees of English were exchanged between people who had one thing in common: they began.
My mother worked on farms, then on an assembly line in a car factory, six days, double classes.
They could somehow find the time to acquire English and it skills.
We were poor.
Every dollar was assigned, and was placed in other education for English and mathematics, no matter what we had to do. Most of the new things that always came from second hand.
Two couple of turmoil for school each to meet the holes in the other.
A debt uniform to the ankings, because it had to be enough for six years.
And, with the rare but painful chasms of "Slippery eye," Asians, go home. "
Back home?
Something stemmed in me.
There was a meeting to reconciliation and a calm voice: "I will go out of your way."
My mother, my sister, and I sleeping in the same bed.
My mother was exhausted every night, but we told each other from our day, listening to our grandmother's movements in the house.
My mother suffered from the boat.
And it was my job to stay alive every night until their nightmares came to awaken them.
It opened a computer deal, then made cosmetic education and opened a business.
And women came with their stories of men not helped change, angry, flexible, and sory, and filled children caught between two worlds.
Loans and sponsors were plagued.
Centers have been built.
I lived in parallel worlds.
In one thing, I was the classic Asian student, the unbitant requirements of themselves.
In others, I was deeply involved in uncertain lives, the tragic scars of violence, drug abuse, and isolation.
But so many received support for years.
And, for this help, I was contemplated as a young Australian woman last year.
And I was caught by a game of the next catappointed, and the margins did not fit together.
Tan Le Le Le, anonymous naval, was now Tan, refugee, and social activist who was invited to speak to places that they never heard, and in the homes whose existence it never had imagined.
I was not familiar with the volume of etization.
I did not know how to use the bribe.
I didn't know how to talk about wine.
I didn't know how to talk about anything.
I wanted to go back to the routine, and the convenience of a life of an unknown prevails – a grandmother, a mother, and two daughters who dropped each day in their days, by telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping, we still read three in the same bed.
I told my mother, I would not.
It reminded me that I was now as old as they were when we had risen.
No one option was never.
"Tu simply said," She said, "And not what you are not."
So I spoke about youth unemployment and education, and neglect of marginalized and disenfranchised.
And the more open I spoke, the more I should tell.
I met people in all life, so many of them did what they loved, lived on the limits of the possible possible.
And, while I concluded, I realized that I could not find myself in jura career.
There had to be another game.
And I realized at the same time that it is okay to be an outsider, a newcomer, new image – not just okay, but something to be grateful, perhaps a gift to the boat.
Because there can be so easy to bring to the collapse of the horizon, it can be so easy to accept the environment's assumptions.
I have now gone enough to know that, yes, the world is breaking apart, but not as they fear.
Opportunities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged.
There was an energy, a relentless optimism, a strange mix of humility and wagos.
So I was followed by my gut sense.
I convened a small team of people to whom the schublade "Is not" An un
For a year, we had no cent.
At the end of a day, I coated a giant pot that we shared.
We were working to the night.
Most of our ideas were crazy, but there were a few brilliant ones, and we managed the breakthrough.
I met the decision to draw to the us.
After only a trip there.
My gut feeling back.
Three months later, I moved around and the adventure went on.
Before I close the presentation, I want to tell you about my grandmother.
It grew at a time when Confucianism was the social norm, and the local Mandarin was the most important person.
Life has not changed for centuries.
Her father died shortly after her birth.
Her mother drew her on her own.
She was told to marry the second woman whose mother proposed it.
Without her husband's support, she ensured a sensation by bringing him to court and prosecutors in her own case, and a larger sensation than she won.
"Don't" Turned out to be untrue.
I just dured in a hotel room in Sydney when it died 1,000 kilometers from Melbourne.
I looked at the dubious divisions and looked at the other side.
I knew she came to pass.
My mother called me a few minutes later.
A few days later, we went into a Buddhist temple in football scray and sat around their sarg.
We told their stories and insurance that we were still at them.
To midnight, the monks came and said he must close the sarg.
My mother asked us to take its hand.
She asked the monks: "Why is your hand so warm and the rest of it so cold?"
"Because they keep them tomorrow," He said.
"They have not let them loose."
If there is a band in our family, it is women.
If you look to who we were and how life has shaped us, we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives have arrived.
The defeat would have been too easy.
Now I like my own children, and I still consider the boat.
Who would ever wish?
Yes, I fear of privileges, before ease, are entitled to justification.
Can I give you a bug in your life that is bravely leveraging every wave that is unchoked, steady tuckers of the motors, the horizon that guarantees nothing?
I don't know.
But if I could give this and secure it, I would do it.
Moreover, today's mother is in the fourth or fifth series.
I am here to share my story with them.
Is it at all?
For this is, of course, a picture that cannot be used with its camera.
Yet my interest in photographs began when I received my first digital camera, at the age of 15.
I combined it with my previous prerogatives, but it was a bit different, because the camera was the process in planning.
And when you take an image with a camera, the process ends when you push down the trigger.
So, for me, it seemed more likely to be on the right place at the right time.
I believed that everyone could.
So I wanted to create something different about what the process begins when the trigger is pushed
Photos like this: a building along a much-strained road.
But it has an unexpected twist.
And yet a realistic level is halved.
Or photos like these – dark and color also happily, but all with the common goal of maintaining a realistic level.
When I say reality, I mean photo reality.
For, of course, it is not something that you really can capture, but I always want to make it look like if it could have done it on a photo.
Photos with which one must consider a brief moment to find the trick.
So it is more about capturing an idea than a moment.
But what is the trick that makes it realistic?
Is it about the details or colors?
Is the light?
What creates the illusion?
Sometimes the perspective is the illusion.
In the end, however, it is about how we interpret the world, and how it can be made on a two-fold area.
It is not about what is realistic, but what we think realistic.
So I think the foundations are very easy.
I see them as a puzzle of reality in which one can take pieces and sit down to create an alternative reality.
And let me show you a simple example.
We have three perfect imaginable physical objects that we can all identify in a three-dimensional world.
But, in a certain kind of interconnection, they can create something that still looks triple as if it could exist.
But we also know that this is not possible.
So we overlists our brains, because our brains simply do not accept that it doesn't really make sense.
And I see the same process in combination of photographs.
It is really about combining different realities.
So the things that make a picture realistic are the things we don't think about, the things around us in our everyday life.
But if we pair photos, it is really important to think about it, because otherwise they simply see false.
So I would say that there are three simple rules to achieve a realistic result.
As they can see, these are not three special images.
But combine them with something like this.
So the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective.
Second, combined photographs should have the same lighting.
And these two images meet these two requirements – shot out of the same level and the same lighting.
Third, it is impossible to distinguish where individual images begin and end by combining them seamlessly.
Power makes it impossible to say how the photograph was actually assembled.
So, by equating color, contrast, and helliability at the margins of images, introducing photographs of species like deep, failed colors, and disruptions, we ravel the boundaries between different images and let them look like a single photo, even though a picture can contain hundreds of levels.
Here is another example.
One might think that this is only a matter of land, and the bottom part has been manipulated.
But this picture is really entirely composed of photographs of different places.
I personally dededeclare that it is easier to shape a place than find a place, because it must not be taken into compromise with ideas in his head.
But it requires much planning.
And when I had this idea in winter, I knew that I needed several months to plan them to find the different places for the puzzle.
For example, the fish was seized on a glut.
The shores of another place.
Beneath the ocean comes from a stone break.
And, yes, I have even charted the house on the island to make it look like Sweden.
So, to achieve a realistic result, I am based on planning.
I always begin with a sketch, an idea.
After all, the combination of various images is about.
And here, every piece is very well planned.
And when you take good records, the result can be pretty good, and quite realistic.
So all the tools are available, and the only thing we limicrate is our imagination.
Thank you.
I would like to talk about why so many electronic health projects fail.
And I think that the most important point is that we have stopped talking to our patients.
And one of the things we introduced at the cycling university was to provide a major listener.
It is not particularly scientific – it presents a cup of coffee or tea, and asks patients, families, relatives, "What is going on?
How can we help you? "
And we think that this is one of the main problems that everyone – perhaps only most of the electronic health projects fail: because we stopped listening.
This is my wlan-waage. A very simple thing.
It has a click on / out.
And every morning I springe on it.
And, yes, I have a task of how they might recognize.
I put my job at 95 kg.
It works very simple: every time I step up to the waage, you send my data to Google health.
And there they will also be called by my general doctor to see where my weight problem lies, not just the moment I need cardiological support or so, but also a look at the past.
But there is something else.
Perhaps they know, I have more than 4,000 follower on Twitter.
So every morning, I jump to my wlan-waage and people are talking to me before I am in the car: "For lunch, just a small fix today."
But that is the most net thing that can happen because it is the group coercion to help patients, because it could be used against obesity, or it could use patients to smoke.
But it could also be used to get people out of their stoves, and to play some kind of game together to control their health.
From next week, the market is coming.
There will be this small bloodprinting device that includes an iPhone or so.
And it will allow people to measure their home pressure from home to send him to their doctor, for example, to share it with others, for more than $100.
At that point, patients can come to the game, not only can they take control, captain on their own ship, but can also help us face the challenges that lie ahead, and the explosion of health care, double demand, and so on.
If they make the methods easy to use and begin with this to transform patients in the team.
And they can achieve such methods, but also by crowdsourcing.
And one of the things we have done is I want to share with you through a moment video.
We have all navigation-related systems in our cars.
Perhaps even in our phones.
We know exactly where all ATMs are around Maastricht.
We know another one where all gas stations lie.
And it is clear that we can find fast food chains.
But where would the next AED be to help this patient?
We asked around, and no one knew it.
No one knew where the next lifesaed AED was at this moment.
So what did we do? We have done crowdsourcing in the Netherlands.
We have built a Internet site and asked a human mass, "If you see an AED, please tell us where he is when he has," Because sometimes it is closed during business times, of course.
And more than 10,000 AEDs have been reported in the Netherlands.
The next step was to find apps.
And we have shaped an imf app.
We developed an app for Layar, expanded reality to find this afdb.
And if they are in a city like Maastricht and someone breaks down, they can use their iPhone, and, within the next few weeks, microsoft-cell phone to find the next AED to save lives.
And, today, we want this not only as aed4u, as the product called, but also to adopt as AED4US.
And we want to bring this to a global level.
And we ask our colleagues around the world, from other universities to help us behave like central points to crowdsourcing this afdb around the world.
And if they are on holiday and someone breaks down, whether their own kin or someone else, they can find an AED one.
The other thing we want to ask is that companies around the world help us confirmation of this afdb.
These may be services, or engineers, for example, to ensure that the reported AED is still in place.
Please help us and try to improve health rather than just slightly.
Thank you.
Today, I will report unexpected discoveries.
I work in the solar technology industry.
And my small startup wants us to force environmental protection by...
... Crowdsourcing squandered.
Here is a moment video of what we do.
Oh. A moment.
It may take until it is loaded.
Now – we can simply leapfrog this – instead I will simply leapfrog the video...
No.
This is not...
Okay.
Solar technology is...
Oh my time is over?
Okay. Thank you.
So a few years ago, I launched a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a time out and work in an environment that is pretty much all they hate, we have made them work in the government.
The program is "Code for America," And it is a bit like the peace Corps for computer geeks.
We choose some fellows each year, and we can work with urban administrations.
Instead of sending them to the third world, we send them to rathev.
And they developed great apps, worked with urban employees.
But what they really do is show what is possible today with technology.
So they meet Al.
Al is a hydrant in the city of Boston.
Here it looks as if he is looking for a date, but what he really seeks is someone who is pulling him out when he knows that he is not very good in branding when he was awarded from one meter of snow.
How did he find this particular way to seek help?
We had a team of fellows in Boston last year with the "Code for America."
They have been there in February, and it has been much less in February last February.
And they found that the city never uses these hydro shocks.
But a particular fellow, a man called Erik mikel Obama, noted another, and that was that residents were quick to walk out of the street, directly before those parts.
So he did what any good developer would do, he wrote an app.
It is a fun small app where you can hydranize it.
You are voting for him to be free.
If you do that, you can give him a name, and he called the first Al.
If you don't do so, you can take it away.
So there is a fun small game dynamic.
This is a modest small app.
It is probably the smallest 21 apps that fellows have written last year.
But it does something that does not do other government technology.
It is rapidly spreading.
There is this guy in the I.T. Division of the city of Honolulu, who has seen that he could use this app, not for snow, but to adopt the citizens of tsunami-sirens.
It is important that these tsunami-sirens work, but people steal the batteries.
So he got citizens to review them.
Then Seattle decided to use the app to get citizens to clean the clogged gullys.
And Chicago has just introduced it to allow people to spend their hikes when they mess.
We now know nine cities planning to use this app.
And it has spread smoothly, organically, of course.
If you know something about government technology, you know that it is not usually doing so.
Software procurement typically takes a few years.
We had a team working in Boston last year for the three and a half months.
It was a way for parents to figure out which the right public schools are for their children.
We were told later that if it were to go beyond the normal channels, it would have taken more than two years, and it would have cost more than $2 million.
And that is nothing.
There is now a project in the California judiciary, which has cost taxpayers $2 billion, and it does not work.
And there are projects like this at every level of the government.
So an app written in a few days, and then spreading from seldom is a shot from the bug to the government.
It shows how the government could work better – no more like a private company, how many people think it should.
And even like a engineering company, rather than the Internet itself.
And that means free access, which means open and productive.
And that is important.
But more important about this app is that it represents a new generation that has done the government's problem – not as the problem of a necessary institution, but as a problem of collective action.
And that is a very good story, because it turns out that we are very good in the collective action with digital technology.
Now there is a large community of people who are producing the tools we need to tackle things effectively.
It is not only "Code for America's fellows, there are hundreds of people around the country who stand up and write government apps, each day in their own communities.
They have not abandoned the government.
They are terrible frustrated with them, but they do not complain about fixing them.
And these people know what we have lost sight.
And that is when you forget your feelings about politics and the line of labor, and all the other things we really get excited about is government, at the heart, in the words of Tim o'lly, "What we do not alone."
Today, a lot of people have abandoned the government.
And if you are one of the people, I urge you to think about it because things change.
Politics is not changing; the government is changing.
And, because the government ultimately gets its power from us – remember: "We think the people?" -- how we think about how this change is happening.
I didn't know much about government when I started this program.
And, like many people, I thought that the government is mainly about voting in office.
Now, after two years, I concluded that, above all, local communities, they are battered.
This is the call-center for service and information.
You usually get out when you call 311 in your city.
If you ever have the chance to work in your urban call-center, such as our fellow Scott Silverman as part of the program – indeed, they all – you will see that the people who call the government for many different problems, including a shiite in their house.
Scott thus gets this anfruf.
He turned into the official database. "
And he does not really have an idea. He starts with the animal.
Finally, he says, "Look, can you simply open all doors in your house and play very vocal music, and see if the livestock are absent?"
And that worked; applause for Scott.
But that was not the end of the battles.
Boston has not only a call-center.
It has an app, a web and handy-app called citizens connect.
We have not written this app.
This is the work of very smart people in the office of the "New urban engineering" In Boston.
One day – this is a true report - this was purely: "Crushing rat in my garbage ton cannot say whether it is dead.
How do I get them away? "
But what happened to "Citizens connect" Is different.
Scott was subject to humans.
But "Citizen connect" Is all publicly so that everyone can see it.
In that case, it saw a neighbor.
And the next record we got was "I went over there, found the garbage ton behind the house.
The rat? Alive? Yap.
The garbage ton went home.
Good night, sweet rat. "
Fairly simple.
This is great. Here is the digital physical.
And it is also a good example of how the government is in crowdsourcing.
But it is also a great example of the government as a platform.
And I don't necessarily mean a platform of technical definition.
I advocate a platform for people to help themselves and help others.
A citizen helped another citizen, but the government played a central role here.
It combined these two people.
And it could have connected them with government services if it had been needed, but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to state services.
If a neighbor helps others, we strengthen our communities.
Call the animal earners, it costs a lot of money.
One of the most important things is that we must think about this is that government is not the same as politics.
And most people understand this, but they believe that one is the input of the other.
That our contribution to the system is the choice.
How often have we elected a political leader – and sometimes we have used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader – and then we reject ourselves, and we expect the government to reflect our values and meet our needs, and did not change much?
That is because the government is like an ocean, and politics are the top 15cm.
And what is, is what we call bureaucratic bureaucracy.
And we use this word with such disdain.
But it is this contempt that makes this cause that we own, and for which we pay, something else that is working against us, and then we decided ourselves.
People seem to think that politics is sexy.
If we want this institution to work for us, we must make bureaucratic bureaucracy sexy.
Because that is where the real government is doing.
We need to put ourselves on the machinery of the government.
So the occupying movement has done it.
Are you witnessing these boys?
It is a group of worsened citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-ilateral report that is an answer to the sec-membero about the financial reform Bill.
This is not politically active, which is bureaucratic.
Now, for those of us who have abandoned the government, it is time to think about the world we want to leave our children.
You have to imagine the enormous challenges they must confront.
Do we really believe that we must achieve what we must achieve without improving an institution that can act in the name of all of us?
A government is absolutely necessary, but it must become more efficient.
The good news is that technology can fundamentally paraphrase the government's function in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society.
And there is a generation that has grown up with the Internet, and it knows that it is not so difficult to do things together, one must only build the right systems.
Now the average age of our fellows is 28, so I am, unfortunately, almost one generation older than most of them.
This is a generation that has grown up to see their voice for granted.
They are not fighting this battle that we all struggle to speak about who must speak; they must all speak.
They can express their opinions on every channel at every time, and they do.
So, when confronted with the government's problem, they do not care so much about using their voices.
They use their hands.
They use their hands to write applications that improve the government's work.
And these apps allow us to use our hands to improve our communities.
This may be to throw a hydrant free refuge into a rogue of reversing a coffle with a shiite.
And sure, we could have allowed these hydrans to free the entire time, and many people do so.
But these apps are like small digital memories that we are not just consumers, and we are not only consumers who pay taxes and receive services.
We are more than that, we are citizens.
And we will not improve the government until we improve citizenship.
So the question I have for all of you: when the big things we must do together, will we be only a lot of voices, or will we be a lot of hands?
Thank you.
Normally, my role is to explain to people as wonderful the new technologies that are coming up will be, and I thought, as I am among friends, I would tell you what I really think and try to look back and understand what is really happening here.
I will begin to show you just one boring slide.
... Could you please show the slide.
That is a slide I happened to be chosen by my file.
This is not the details of the slide, but rather the generational form.
This slide shows evidence of an analysis of us about the performance of risky operations compared to the performance of a local area networks.
The interesting here is that this slide, like manch, others that we often gather in our field, are a kind of semi-detained curve.
In other words, every step here is a potence in the current-account scale.
And that is a novelty that we need to use this type on semi-screening curves in technology.
Something very strange happens here.
This is essentially what I will talk about.
So, if you please put the light back.
Something more heller, because I will sign something about the paper.
Now, why are we mapping into semi-screening curves?
The reason is that if I were to draw it on a normal curve, where, say, the years are, the timeline of a kind, and this is a bious mass of technology I want to represent with a graph, then the chart is silly.
That is what we see.
And this does not tell us much.
If I want to track a different technology, say, transport technology, it would come from a very unreasonable scale, in the form of a moderate line.
But if something happens here, it changes qualitative circumstances.
So, if transport technology were to move as fast as microlibel technology, we could enter into a cab overnight, and in 30 seconds we would be in Tokyo.
But this is not so fast.
This has never been in the history of technology development, this kind of rechange-rate growth that is increasing exponentially every few years.
The question I want to ask you now is when you look at these exponential curves, you don't see them ever further.
It is not possible that everything evolves forever and forever.
There are two possibilities:
Either this will be a classic curve like here, until something completely new comes from, or it will happen here.
That is, for example.
Now I am an optimist, so I think something like this will happen.
If that is true, we are now in the midst of a transition.
We are on this line, in a transition from the world to a new type of world.
So the question I want to ask, and I often ask myself, is how this new world will be?
What is this new state of affairs that the world is slow?
For the transition seems to be very confusing when it is in the midst of it.
When I was a child, the future was somewhere in 2000 and people often told what would happen in 2000.
Now we have a conference where people speak about the future, and it is clear that the future is still in 2000.
We don't go further than that.
In other words, the future has shrunk every year since I am in the world.
I think of this is why we recognize that something is going on.
The transition is happening. We can all feel it.
And we know that it simply does not make sense to try 30 or 50 years into the future, because it will be so different that a simple Bill of what we now make no sense.
I want to talk about what this might be, this transition in which we are now.
To do so, I will first talk about some other things that really do nothing with technology or computers.
For I believe that this is true, we must go back and watch the cause on a longer date.
And, while I want to look at this at the time scale of earth's life.
I think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion billion steps.
So, if we go back, and at 2.5 billion years, the earth was a big, sterile stump, with many remaining chemicals.
If one considers the way these chemicals were organized, it gives us a pretty good picture about how they enacted.
I also believe there are theories to understand how everything started with RNA, but I will tell you a simplified story that, at that time, small oil droves around which contained various types of recipes for chemicals.
Some of these oil helicopters included a particular combination of chemicals that allow them to integrate other types of chemicals from outside and thus grow.
All of the goods began to share.
These small oil prices were the most primitive cell form.
But these oil prices were not alive in today's sense, because each individual was just a small, random prescription of chemicals.
And every time it divided, the chemicals have been distributed too much.
Thus, every hurricane was a little different.
In fact, the drowned out which growth had the more efficient mix than others, integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster.
So these tended to survive longer, and they tended to expand substantially.
So this is only a very simple chemical form of life, but more interesting if these droks learned a trick about abstraction.
In any way that we don't fully understand, these droves have learned the ability to write information.
They have learned to store the cell's prescription as information, and in a certain chemical form we call DNA.
In other words, they found in this intellectual, evolutionary way that allowed them to write down, suggesting that this information could be stored and copied.
The amazing story is that this kind of information has remained equal over the time of 2.5 billion years in which it emerged.
Indeed, the recipe for us is our genes, from the exact same code and the same writing.
And, while any living creatures use the exact same letter and the same code.
We are so far that we can write only to the pleasure of the code.
And I have 100 micrograms of a cushion which I try to keep in airports from security personnel.
Here – what I have done is I have taken this code – the code consists of normal letter that we use to symbolize – and I have written my business card on a piece of DNA, and reinforced it 10-22 times.
So if someone wants a hundred million copies of my business card, I have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world, and it is here.
In fact, if I had been a self-egoist, I would have written it on a virus and issued space.
So what is the next step?
The decline in DNA was an interesting step.
And those cells were liable – that made them happy for another billion years.
But then another, very interesting step in which things were completely different: these cells began to communicate and share information, so that communities arose from cells.
I don't know whether they knew it, but bacteria can actually exchange their DNA.
That is why, for example, insistence on antibiotics is growing.
Some bacteria have found how they can keep penicillin, and have written this information together with other bacteria in DNA, and now we have plenty of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because bacteria interact with each other.
These communications now allowed communities that were in a sense of the same boat; they were synergies.
So they either survived together, or they went together, which meant that if a community was successful, all individuals of the community were more frequently repeated and preferred by evolution.
The transition is now where these communities were so close to the fact that they decided to write the recipe for the entire community into a sign Chain on DNA.
And the next interesting phase took about another billion years.
At that point, we have several tent communities, communities of many shifts in cell types that act together as individual organism.
Indeed, we are such a multi-polar community.
We have many cells that are no longer on their own.
Your skin cells are useless without heart cells, muscle cells, brain cells, and so on.
So these communities began to evolve, so that the level on which evolution took place was no longer the single cell, but the entire cell community that we call the organism.
The next step is now within these communities.
Cell communities began to abstract information again.
And they developed specific structures that did nothing else than process information within the organism.
And these are the neural structures.
So the nerve is the information processing apparatus that these cell communities have built.
They began to train specialists within the community, specific structures that account for learning, understand, and retain information.
And that was the brain and the nervous community.
This gave them an evolutionary advantage.
Because an individual – an individual – is now learning within the period of an organism's lifespan, rather than through this evolutionary period.
So, for example, an organism could learn not to eat a particular frustrate, because it liked it and got sick, the last time he consumed it.
This has now happened within the lifespan of an individual organism, whereas hundreds of thousands of years were needed, because this information had to be informed by the individuals who died because the information processing structures were not in place.
So the nervous system has the evolutionary process through this particular information structures, because evolution has now been within an individual.
It could take place within a time learning framework.
What happened then is that individual organisms found a way to communicate with one another.
Once for example, the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language.
But it is a simple invention when it is thinking about it.
I have a very complicated, unorderly, and confusing idea in my head.
I sit here and, in fact, some root ones of me, in the hope of establishing a similar confusion idea in your head, which has some similarity to my original idea.
So we take something very complicated, transform it into sound, a sequence of sound, producing something very complicated in the minds of others.
So this will allow us to work again as a single organism.
And what we have done is we, humanity, we have begun to abstract.
We are walking through the same stages of which several cell organisms have endured – the abstraction of our methods as we adhere to data.
The language's invention, for example, was a small step in this direction.
Telephony, computers, video plants, CD roms, and so on are all our specialized mechanisms we built in our community to manage this information.
And it combines all of us to something much larger, and it is also capable of developing more quickly than we have been
Today, evolution can happen in the period of microseconds.
You have also seen tys's small example of evolution in "Convolution" Program, straight to your eyes.
So now we have escalated the time.
The first steps of history I told you had a billion years per piece.
The next steps, such as the nervous and the brain, lasted several hundred million years.
Then steps, such as language, and so on, lasted less than one million years.
And these next steps, such as electronics, seem to last few decades.
The process is fed by itself, and thus, I believe, automobile will catalyze the word – if something reinforces its pace.
The more it changes, the faster it changes.
And I think that is what we see here in this explosive curve.
We see the process fed by itself.
I live vocational by building computers and I know that I could not use the mechanism I use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology.
My current action is to design objects with such a high complexity that it is impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense.
I don't know what makes every single giant in the binding machine.
It has billions of them.
Instead, what I do, and what the designers of thinking machines are, we think at a certain level of abstracology, hand over the machine, and the machine makes something that exceeds our skills far, better and faster than we could ever do.
And it makes it partly the methods that we cannot even understand.
One way that is particularly interesting, and which I have recently used is evolution itself.
In doing so, we install an evolutionary process in the machine that is happening in the microsecondary sector.
To name one example, in the most extreme cases, we can create a program that emerges from accidental inconsistencies.
We say, "Computers, generated a hundred million chance, chosen the sequence of instructure.
Now all of these random elected disruption will lead all programs, and eventually vote for those who are the next one. "
So in other words, I first define what I want.
Say, I want to circumvent numbers that would be a simple example I have used for it.
So, does programs that can prevail numbers.
Of course, the chance of having elected intervention is very small that it is, by accident, just numbers, so it is unlikely to do so.
But one of them may have two numbers in the right order.
Now I say, "Computers are now taking off the 10% of the sequence that my proposed requirements have come next.
They buck them, cut the rest.
Now all the rest of the gdgs that have best sorted the numbers.
And, with a way of recombination, analogous to reproduction. "
Take two programs and they produce children through the exchange of subroutina, and children inherit the traits of the subroutina of two programs.
So now I have a new generation of programs that arose from combinations of programs that have come slightly closer to the precedents than others.
"Please revisit this process."
They were asked again.
Perhaps a few mutations.
And try this again with another generation.
All of these generations need only a few milliseconds.
So I can undergo evolution over millions of years in computers in less minutes, or in more complicated cases some hours.
Finally, I am getting programs perfect to sorcate
The fact is that these programs are so much more efficient than any program I could have ever written by hand.
When I look at these programs, I cannot say how they work.
I have tried to understand them.
It is confused and peculiar programs.
But they do the job.
I know and I certainly know that they do the job because they come from a number of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job.
For their lives depended on whether they made the job right.
I sat in a follow-up with Marvin Minsky, a card, saying, "Oh watching you.
There is, 'this plane is composed of hundreds of thousands of small parts that work together to make their flight safer.' don't make you more confident? "
We know that a development process is not optimal when it becomes too complicated.
So we begin to rely on computers for a process that differs from classical engineering.
It allows us things to produce a much higher complexity than normal methods.
Yet we do not understand the possibilities of this.
So, squandering the technology.
We now use these programs to make computers much faster, so that we are able to carry out these processes even faster.
So feedback loops.
It will be faster and faster, and I think that is why it seems so confusing.
Because all of these new technologies now feed themselves.
We lift down.
We have arrived at a point that is then when cell organisms evolved to multi-cell organisms.
So we are the oil oil, and we can't be fully out of what we really do to hell.
We are in the midst of this transition.
But I really believe that something is happening after us.
I find it very hard to say that we are the final product of evolution.
And I think we are all here to be part of what is always next.
Now, the lunacy is before and I think I are now listening before I will be rechosen.
My story begins here in Rajasthan, about two years ago.
I was in the desert under Star skies, together with sufifi-singer Mukhtiar Ali.
We said that nothing has changed since the age of the ancient Indian epoch's "Frharata."
When we wanted to travel then, we were going into a car and swirls over the sky.
Now we do so with airplanes.
Back then, when the great Indian war prince ara thirst, he took an arc, shot in the ground and water.
Now we do so with drilling and machines.
We concluded that the magic and magic were replaced by machinery.
I was truly saddened.
I got some fear of technology.
I fear that I could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and my friends without tweet.
I found that technology should make magic possible, not kill.
When I was a small girl, my grandfather gave me his small silver lining.
This piece of 50 years old technology became the most magling thing for me.
It became a golden access to a world of pirates and unlucky ships and images in my mind.
I thought that we would send our watches and cameras out.
They thought that we were inspired.
As a result, I gave myself in the world of technology to see how I could use it to enable magic rather than kill.
With 16, I began to highlight books.
When I saw the iiian, I saw it as a machine in the story that can link readers around the world.
It can know how we hold it.
It can know where we are.
It brings images and text together, and animation, sounds, and contact.
The story is increasingly needed.
But what do we do?
I simply go to Khoya, an interactive ipads app.
Here, "Leg your finger on every light."
As a result, "This box belongs..." I write my name.
And I see a figure in the book.
And again, a letter for me is falling down – and iiiipads knows by GPS, which is right to addresate me.
My child is really enthusiastic about such opportunities.
I have spoken much about magic.
I mean not wizards and dragon, but the magic of childhood, the ideas we all had as children.
Armies in a glass have always been very exciting.
For example, you need to tip the idiose and the ardent binge.
And the rest of the book highlights the way.
Another idea that I was fascinated as a child is that an entire galaxy can be in a single murslew.
So every book and every world will be a small fine that I draw here to the magic device.
And this opens a map.
Fantasy ybooks always had cards, but these cards were static.
This map is growing, making sense, and serves for the rest of the book.
It also shows itself elsewhere in the book.
I am here.
It is also important for me to create something that is domestically, but it is also very timely.
This is the Apsaras.
We all heard of feen and nymphen, but how many people outside India know their Indian colleagues who Apsaras?
The poor Apsaras were caught thousands of years in indras chambers in an old culminated book.
And we bring them back, in a contemporary history for children.
A story that deals with new matters as the environmental crisis.
On the environmental crisis, a big problem of the last 10 years is that children in their rooms are sitting on their computers without getting out.
But now, with mobile technology, we can take our children into the natural world with its technology.
In a book interaction, one is sent to search, and the ipads's camera will take images of natural objects.
As a child, I had collections, stones, and barnacles.
Somehow, children do no longer.
This child's ritual is being discarded; you must go out to make a photo of a passport.
In another chapter, one must establish and mark a piece of construction capability.
Indeed, a digital collection of photographs that can then be online.
A child in London shows the picture of a story and says, "Oh, I have seen a story today."
A child in India says, "I have seen a apes today."
This creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you actually took.
There is a variety of ways to link the world and technology.
In the next book, we are planning an interaction in using the ipads'video, using an animation of reality that appears at a plant before the house.
One is filling the screen with pages.
You need to make the wind's noise, you have to read away bubbles and the rest of the
We all move to a world where technology's natural migrants are closer and can converge in magic and technology.
We use the energy of the sun.
We bring our children and closer to the natural world and the magic, fun, and the love of our childhood by the simple medium of a story.
Thank you.
This is truly an extraordinary honor for me.
I spend most of my time with people in check, prisons, or death cells.
I spend most of my time with the socially weakest in social construction and in places where there is much hope.
Here to be at TED, to see and hear how stimulative that is, I have given much power.
In the short time, I have one clear: TED has an identity.
We can say things that have influence worldwide.
And sometimes when something comes to TED, it gets a meaning and force that would not otherwise have.
I say that, because I believe that identity is very important.
We have seen some fanfare.
I believe that we have learned that the words of a faculty are important, but the words of a dedicated curriculum are particularly irrelevant.
As a doctor, you can do good, but you can do more.
So I want to talk about the power of identity.
I did not learn this in my work as a lawyer.
I learned this from my grandmother.
I was large in a family, a traditional African-American budget dominated by matriarchin, and this matriarchin was my grandmother.
It was a brave woman, a strong woman.
It had the last word in any family dispute.
It was also the starting point of many disputes in our family.
She was a slave family.
Their parents were born as slaves in the 1840s.
It was born by 1880, and the experience of slavery was very strong.
My grandmother was strong, but she was also loving.
When I met her as a young boy, she came to me and impoverished me.
They put me so firmly that I could barely breathe, leaving me loose.
One or two hours later, when I met her, she came to me and said, "Bryan, are you feeling my embrace?"
And when I say no, she reversed me. When I say, "Yes, she left me quiet.
It was something that made it always wanted to be close.
The only problem was that it had ten children.
My mother was the youngest of her ten children.
Sometimes when I wanted to spend time with them, it was hard to get their attention.
My cousins ran around the world.
I recall that I have been eight or nine that I watched in one morning and entered my cousins around.
My grandmother sat at the end of the room, and looked at me.
First, I thought that this would be a game.
I looked at it and smiled, but it looked very serious.
This was 15 or 20 minutes, and it stood up and came to me; it took me in hand and said, "Come, Bryan. You and I, we must speak."
I remember it as if it was yesterday.
I will never forget it.
She took me out and said, "Bryan, I will tell you something, but you must promise that you don't read it.
I said, "Promised, oma."
She said, "Honor word?" I said, "Yes."
She sat me and looked at me, saying, "I want you to know that I have watched you."
She said, "I think you are special."
She said, "I think you can do everything you want to do."
I will never forget that.
Then she said, "You have to promise only three things, Bryan."
I said, "OK, oma."
She said, "First you tell me that your mother will always love."
She said, "Your mother is my baby, and you have to promise that you will always care about you."
I admired my mother, so I said, "Yes, oma, which I will do."
Then she said, "As next, I tell me that you will always do the right thing," Even if it is hard to do the right thing. "
I thought and said, "Yes, oma. I will be told."
After all, she said, "The last thing you have to promise is that you will never drink."
Now I was nine years old, and I said, "Yes, oma. I will be told."
I grew up in the country, the old, rural South, and I have a brother older one year and a year younger sister.
When I was 14 or 15, one day my brother came home, and brought my sister and I caught up with us in the forest.
We fatated only as usual.
Then he took a gorge and offered one of my sister, and she assumed it, and then offered me one.
I said, "No, no, no, no. You do. You don't want a beer."
My brother said, "Well, let's do so. Today, you do whatever we do.
I had what your sister had, with Los, a beer. "
I said, "I don't want to do so. You just do."
My brother dared me.
He said, "What is going on with you? Now trink."
Then he saw me in the face, saying, "Oh no, you don't do you get crazy about the conversation with oma?"
I said, "What are you talking about?"
He said, "Oma tells everyone that they are special."
I was devastated.
I will acknowledge them.
I should not.
This may be broadcast publicly.
I am 52 years old, and I am divided that I never had a drop of alcohol.
I don't say this because I believe it is virtue; I say that it means identity.
If we create the right kind of identity, we can tell people around us things they do not first believe.
We can get them to do things they thought they could not.
Of course, my grandmother would say all its grandchildren that they are special.
My grandfather was in prison during the prohibition.
My uncle died of alcohol inflicted diseases.
And they believed that this is the issues we need to care about.
I tried to say something about our judicial system.
This country is different from 40 years ago.
In 1972, 300,000 people were in prison and prison.
Today, it is 2.3 million.
The United states today has the world's highest incarceration rate.
Seven million people are released on currency or unconditional enforcement.
In my view, mass imprisings have fundamentally changed our world.
Socially weak and black parts of the population prevail and despair, owing to these changes.
One of three male blacks between 18 and 30 is in prison, release, or unconditional enforcement.
In urban communities across the country – from Los Angeles to Philadelphia, Baltimore to Washington – 50% of all black men are either in prison, release or unconditional enforcement.
But our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial affiliation; it is also being disposed by poverty.
We have a judicial system that treatment them much better when they are rich and guilty of being poor and innocent.
Wealth, not debt, affects the result.
Yet we seem very happy with this.
A policy of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems.
We have lost contact.
I find this interesting.
There are some highly interesting developments.
My home state Alabama will permanently deprive them of the electoral right if they are condemned.
Here and today in Alabama, 34% of the male population have permanently lost their electoral right.
We predict that in ten years the rate of rejecting civil honorable rights will be as high as before the adoption of the electoral law.
The silence is wary.
I represent children.
Many of my clients are very young.
America's United states is the only country in the world, which condemns three-year children to death.
In this country, there are decent penalties for children without conditional enforcement.
We already have a lot of procedures.
The world's only country.
I represent people in death cells.
The death penalty question is an interesting question.
We believe, because we have taught us that the real question is: did a man deserve to die for a crime committed by him?
This is a very sensitive question.
But one can also think differently about how we see our identity.
The other view is not: did someone deserve death for a crime, but did we deserve to kill?
I find this fascinating.
America's death penalty defines itself.
Nine people we were executed are one that we found innocent, who was discouraged and released from the death cell.
An astounding mistake. One of nine are innocent.
I find this fascinating.
We would never allow someone to fly with a plane if for nine planes withdrawal, outright.
But we can somehow avoid this problem.
It is not our problem.
It is not our guarantees.
It is not our struggle.
I talk much about these questions.
I talk about race and the question of whether we are the right to kill.
And it is exciting because I teach my students African-American history. I am talking about slavery.
I talk about terrorism, the time against the reconstruction, until the start of world war II.
We don't really know much about it.
But for african-americans in this country, it was a time of terror.
In many areas, people had to fear lynchmobs.
Or bombs before.
It was fear of terror that shaped their lives.
These older people now come to me and say, "Mr, Stevenson, they speak; they tell people that they should stop saying that we have to do it for the first time in our nation's history with terrorism:" After September 11.
They say, "No – say the people that we have grown up with it."
And, of course, after terrorism, racial segregation and decades of racist submission and apartheid came.
Yet in our country, there is a dynamic … we don't like to talk about our problems.
We don't like to talk about our history.
And that is why we do not really understand the importance of our actions in the historical context.
We are constantly attacking each other.
We always create new tensions and conflicts.
We are hard to talk about race, and I believe that we are not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation.
In South Africa, people understood that racial segregation is not overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation.
Even after the genocide in Rwanda, there was this willingness, but not in this country.
I have kept some lectures in Germany about the death penalty.
It was fascinating, because one of the scientists stood up after my presentation and said, "You know, it is deeply disturbing to hear them."
He said, "There is no death penalty in Germany.
And, of course, it can never give it to Germany.
It was still still silent. A woman said, "With our history, it is impossible that we ever talk about the systematic killing of people.
We would be aware and targeted by people. "
I thought about this.
How it would feel to live in a world where the German state left people, especially if disproportionately many jews are.
It would be untolerable.
It would be formidable.
And yet, here in this country, in the states of the old South, we focus on people – there is the risk of being sentenced to death, 11 times higher when the victim is white than it is 22 times higher when the accused is black and the victims of the same rest.
Yet there is this mental decoupling.
I think our identity is threatened.
If we do not address these tough issues, the positive and wonderful things are also affected.
We love innovation.
We love technology and creativity.
We love entertainment.
But, at the end, these realities are overshadowed by suffering, abuse, departure, exclusion.
I seem important to unite both.
After all, we are talking about more hope that we need more engagement, more commitment to persist in a complex world.
For me, this means thinking and talking about the poor, the disadvantaged who will never be TED.
But consider a way that is integrated into our own lives.
Ultimately, we all need to believe things we cannot see.
We are doing so rationally, so much we know it.
Innovation, creativity, and development are not just from our minds.
They come from ideas driven by the conviction in our hearts.
It is this lofty and heart connection, which I believe is driving us not only to be open to all the bright and inspiring things, but also for the dark and problematic.
Vaclav Havel, the major Czech politician, once said:
'when we fought against oppression in eastern Europe, we wanted everything possible, but what we needed most was hope to be a mental orientation that will sometimes be willing to be sometimes in desperate places and witness.
This mental orientation is the core of what I believe is that the TED communities must engage in.
There is no limits on technology and design that allows us to be fully human, so long as we have no eyes and ears for poverty, exclusion, and injustice.
I want to warn them, this kind of identity demands much more of us than if we were not concerned about it.
It will deeply touch it.
As a young lawyer, I am the great privilege of meeting Rosa Parks.
Park has always returned to Montgomery, where two of its oldest friends traf: older women, Johnnie Carr, organized the montgomery-boycott – an incredible African-American woman – and Virginia Durr, one whose husband, clippy.
So these women met, and were simply staying.
Back and then, Carr told me and said, "Bryan, woman farms comes to the city. We want to have a conversation.
Do you want to come and listen? "
And I said, "Yes, very happy."
She said, "And what will you do when you are here?"
I said, "I will listen."
And I was walking across and just listening.
It was always so inspiring, owing.
One day, I sat there and listened to these women, and after a few hours, she turned to me Parks to me, saying, "Now Bryan, tell me what the company's right.
What do they try to achieve?
I began with my usual presentation.
I said, "We try to address injustice.
Wr wants to help people who were innocent.
We want to fight bias and discrimination in the enforcement system.
We want to abolish life without conditional enforcement for children.
We want something against the death penalty.
We want to cut the number of inmates.
We want to abolish mass imprisonment. "
I gave my usual talk, and then she looked at me and said, "Msimplistic. Mlogy."
She said, "It will make her very tired."
Then, woman Carr rejected himself to me, put a finger on my face, saying, "And so they must be very, very brave."
And that is why I believe that the TED community should be brave
We must find ways to face these challenges: these problems, this suffering.
After all, our humanity depends on all humanity.
In my work, I learned very simple things.
I learned a few simple things.
That we are all more than the worst we have ever done.
I think that is true for every person on the planet.
If someone lies, he is not just a spotter.
If someone does not belong to him, he is not just an thief.
Even who kills someone is not just a killer.
And, because so, there is a fundamental human dignity that must respect the law.
I also believe that in many parts of this country, and security in many parts of the earth, the opposite of poverty is not wealth.
I don't think so.
I believe that in many places, the opposite of poverty is justice.
Finally, I believe that, though so dramatically, it is so beautiful and inspiring, and so encouraging, we are not measured in our technology, not the things we develop, not our intellect and minds.
Finally, a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged, but by dealing with the poor, the convicts of detained.
For, in this context, we are beginning to understand the truly astonishing things that lie ahead.
Sometimes I lose the balance. A story concludes.
Sometimes I push too much.
I am tired of how we all.
Sometimes these ideas rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way.
I represent these children convicted too harsh penalties.
I go to prison and visits a mandate that may be 13 or 14 years old, and the adult is to be in trial.
Then I wonder: how could this happen?
How can a judge transform someone into something he is not?
The judge views him as an adult, but I see a child.
One night, I remained up for too long and thought, if a judge can transform us into something else, he must have magic forces.
Exactly, Bryan, judges have magic forces.
You should also want.
And, because it was late, and I couldn't think properly, I started working on a request.
I had a 14-year-old poor black boys as a mandate.
And I began with this request, with the rule of law saying that, 'my poor, 14-year-old black mandators like a privileged white to treat 75year executives.
In my request, I declared that mismanagement of the prosecutor and the police as well as procedures.
There was a coherent line on the fact that there is nothing more expected in this country.
The next morning, I watched, and no longer knew whether I was dreaming about this crazy request or actually writing him.
And I had not only written him, but also sent to the court.
A few months were ahead, and I had just forgotten everything.
After all, I decided that my god, I have to offer the court and the crazy case.
I rose into the car and was truly overwhelmed.
So I drove to the court.
And I thought that this will be so painful.
After all, I grew out of my car, and the peasants went to the court.
When I reversed the bar to the court, there was an older black man, the homemaster in the court.
When he saw me, he came to me and said, "Who are you?"
I said, "I am a lawyer. He said," You are lawyer? "I said," Yes. "
He came to me and impoverished me.
Then he whispered me in the ear.
He said, "I am so proud of them."
And I need to say that there was power.
Something very deep in me, identity, individual ability to contribute to a community, to a perspective of hope.
Now I joined the courtroom.
Once the judge saw me,
Did he say, "Mr. Stevenson, have you put this crazy request?"
I said, "Yes." and then we began discussing.
More people came in, simply because they were furious.
I wrote these crazy things.
Police officials came in and deputy prosecutors and bureaucrats.
In turn, the courtroom was filled with people who were angry that we spoke about the color, about poverty, inequality.
From my eye, I watched the homemaster go and off.
He repeatedly saw the window and could listen to the entire tohuwabohu.
He went on and down.
After all, the older black man came with a very concerned face out in the courtroom, and was directly behind me, almost on the defense bank.
Ten minutes later, the judges announced a pause.
During the pause, a police officer came in the first place that the homemaster was in the courtroom.
This deputy ran over to the elderly black.
He said, "Jimmy, what do you do in the courtroom?"
The older black man stood up; he saw the deputy, he looked at me, and he said, "I came to say that young man, you don't lose sight of the goal.
I came to TED because I believe that many of them have understood that the universe's moral pendulum is far off, but that it is justice.
We are not fully developed as humans as long as we do not care about human rights and basic values.
That our survival is linked to each individual's survival.
We must link our vision of technology and design, entertainment, and creativity with humanity, compassion, and justice.
And, above all, I want those who see the same, simply saying: don't lose the target. Don't give them up.
In this audience, they have seen and heard an obvious desire to help them and do something.
What can we do?
Bryan Stevenson: there are opportunities everywhere.
If you live in California, there is a referendum in this spring about actually taking a push to do something about the flow of money that else goes to punishment.
Here, in California, for example, one billion dollars of capital punishment over the next five years will be spent.
And yet 46% of all killings do not end up with arrest.
56% of all rape cases do not come to court.
Here is the chance to do something.
This referendum will propose to invest in more security forces and security.
I believe there are opportunities everywhere.
Over the last three decades, America's crime rate has fallen enormously.
This fact is often placed in a context of increased incarceration numbers.
What would you say to someone who believes that?
Now, in fact, the number of violent crimes has not changed very much.
Most of the mass incarceration in this country did not really occur in the class of violent crimes.
It was the misguided crossroads against drugs.
As a result, the dramatic high numbers in the prison population are coming.
We have taken away from the rhetoric of punishment.
Now we have "Three violations" To put people behind bars for a bicycle theft, let alone force them to back the victims.
I believe we must do more to help people who have become a offense.
And I believe that our protocols are now punishing.
I think that is what we need to change.
Bryan, they have really brought a string to Swing.
They are an inspiring personality.
Thank you for having been TED. Thank you.
Anchor: Bin Laden's death brings increased risk.
Bir2 – famine in Somalia speaker 3: the police buffer spray.
Speaker 4: virulent cartels 5: dangerous crossroads.
Anchor 6 – social deterioration speaker 7: 65 deaths.
An8 – tsunaman warning of 9: cyber attacks.
Various speaker: drug war of mass destruction tornado.
Recession. Deadlock. Doomsday. Egypt.
Crisis. Death.
Oh my god.
So these are just a few of the clips I collected over the last six months – but the last six days could have been, or the last six years.
The fact is that the media prefer to show us negative issues, because our sense is attention to these issues.
There is also a very good reason for this.
Each second day, our sense can absorb much more information than our brains ever.
And, because we are nothing more important than our survival, the first stop for all the information is part of our temporary loss, the amygdala.
So the amygdala is our early warning system, our hazard device.
It is sorting and eroding all information in search of any suggestion of the risk in our environment.
So, if we see the news, we prefer to look for negative news.
And the old adage "When bluster, demand is rising."
Now, with all our digital devices that we have seven days a week to make all this negative news 24 hours a day, it is not surprising that we are pessimistic.
It is no wonder that everyone thinks that the world is getting worse.
But this may not be the case.
Perhaps that is the reality.
Perhaps the huge progress we have made in the last century is accelerating by a number of forces, so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance over the next three decades.
Now I am not saying that we have no major problems – the climate crisis, species die, water, and energy problems – we already have.
And, as humans, we are far better at looking for problems in a very long run, but they have finally overcome them.
Let's look at what we have achieved in the last century so that we can foresee development.
Over the last 100 years, average life expectancy has more than doubled, which has tripled the average average income of the world's population.
Child mortality has reduced by one-tenth.
This means that food, electrification, and communications costs have reduced many times.
Steve pinker has shown us that we are living in a very peaceful period of human history.
And, according to Charles Kenny, literacy rates have increased from 25% to 80% over the past 130 years.
We live in a truly extraordinary time.
And many people forget this.
And we continue to increase our expectations.
Indeed, we have redefined poverty.
Consider that a large proportion of Americans living below the poverty line have access to electricity, water, toilets, refrigerators, TV, mobile phones, climate conditioning, and cars.
The richest capitalists of the last century, the imperators of the earth, would never have such luxuries dream.
The groundwork for much of this is technology, and these grow are potentially potentially.
My good friend of Ray kurdish showed us that every tool that will make great leaps on the curve of Moore's law, and the price performance of the prize quotient is doubling all 12 to 24 months.
That is why the mobile phone costs about one million times less, and thousands of times more quickly than the 1970s supercomputers.
Now look at this curve.
This is Moore's law of the last hundred years.
Consider two things on this curve.
First, as far as it has been, in good times, war, or peace, recession, depression, and boom.
This is the result of faster computers that build faster computers.
It is slowing for neither of our big problems.
Moreover, despite its screening course on the left, it is up.
So the growth rate itself is accelerating.
And on this curve, on the back of Moore's law, we find a number of extraordinary technologies available to all.
"Cloud computing," Something my friends call at autocratic computing, "Sensors, and networks, robots, 3D printing, which allow for democratizing our planet, synthetic biology, fuels, vaccines, and food, digital medicine, nano-materials, and artificial intelligence.
How many of them have seen the victory of IBM's superficial Watson in "Risk?"
That was grandios.
I have used newspapers and sought the best headlines I could find.
I love this: "Watson forces human Opponents."
"Risk" Is not a simple game.
It is about understanding the nuances of language.
Imagine that artificial intelligence would be available to each owner of a mobile phone.
Four years ago, Ray kurds and I launched a new university called "Singularity university."
We bring our students to all of these technologies, with particular focus on how they can be used to address the great challenges of humanity.
And every year, we ask students to create businesses, products, and services that can affect the lives of millarden from human rights within a decade.
Consider that a group of students today can influence the lives of billions of people.
30 years ago, this would have been ridiculously heard.
Today, we can point to dozens of companies that have done exactly that.
If I think of creating profusion, I do not mean a life full of luxury for every planet; it is about creating a life of opportunities.
It is about creating scarce goods.
Scarcity is contentious, and technology is resources liberation.
Here is an example.
This is the history of Napoleon III in the mid-eighteenth century.
He is the left type.
He invited the king of Siam to dinner.
Napoleon's soldiers got silver lining, Napoleon himself received gold.
But the king of Siam received aluminum.
Aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at that time, valuable as gold and plague.
This is why the stick of the Washington monumental monuments was manufactured out of aluminum.
Although aluminum takes 8.3% of the earth's mass, it is not a pure metal.
It is linked by oxygen and wikileaks.
But then the technology of the electric lyse was developed, making aluminum so favorable that we use it with our transition mentality.
Then let us project this analogy into the future.
We now think of energy shortages.
I live on a planet of 5,000-mal energy than we consume annually.
16 terawatts of energy rattling all 88 minutes on the earth's surface.
It is not scarce, the problem is accessible.
There is good news.
This year, for the first time, it has managed to reduce the cost of solar power in India to 50% of diesel electricity – 8,8 rupees compared to 17 rupees.
The cost of solar power fell by 50% last year.
Last month, this published with a study that shows that, by the end of this decade, solar power will cost 6 cents an kWh, compared to 15 cents on the national average.
And if we have an energy surplus, then we will have water in abundance.
Let us talk about water wars.
Do you remember that when Carl pinker turned away the exodus of 1990, when it was past Saturn, turned back to earth?
He took a famous photo. How was it?
"A Pale blue dot."
Because we live on a water planet.
We live on a planet covering 70% of water.
Yes, it is 97.5% salvage, 2% are orphaned, and we are fighting 0.5% of the planet's water, but there is also hope.
And there are new technologies, not in 10 or 20 years, but now.
New technologies are nanotechnologies on the road, nano-materials.
And, from a conversation today with Dean kaman, one of the innovators of the do it, I want to share something with you – he gave me the permission – his technolgy, called the "Slingshot," And many of them may have already heard the size of a student's cooling.
It can generate a thousand liters of clean drinking water per day – whether saline, polluting water, latrine – and all of this for less than 2 cents per liter.
The chairman of Coca-Cola has just agreed to launch a grand test project with hundreds of units in developing countries.
And if everything goes well, and I am very confident, Coca-Cola will apply globally in 206 countries around the planet.
This is a technology-supported innovation that exists today.
And we have also seen this in mobile phones.
You mean kindness, we will soon reach 70% of the report by mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013.
Consider only that a massacre warriors with a cell phone in the middle of Kenya has better mobile communication than president Reagan 25 years ago.
And if you seek Google on your smartphone, you have more access to knowledge and information than president Clinton 15 years ago.
They live in a world that has information and communications over how no one could have predicted.
And there is even better things that they and I spent several thousand dollars – GPS, HD video, and photographs, libraries, and music, technology for medical diagnostics – are now literally disintegrated and cheaper in their mobile phones.
And the best of this may be what we expect in health.
Last month, I had the pleasure of announcing the so-called "$10 million Qualcomm Tricorder prize."
We are asking teams around the world to link all of these technologies into a mobile phone that can be equipped with the equipment, because it is equipped with ai, you can reinhusts or blood values.
And, in order to win, the equipment must better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors.
Imagine this device in the midst of a developing country where there are no doctors, but 25% of the burden of disease and 1.3% of health-care workers.
If this machine sequence a rnaor DNA virus that is not known, it calls for the health authority and prevents a pandemic before its outbreak.
But now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance.
I call them "The coming billion."
The white lines stand for population.
We have just crossed the 7 billion brand.
And only by contrast, the biggest hedge against a population explosion is better education and nutrition around the world.
In 2010, we had just connected among two billion people online.
By 2020, we are expected to rise from two to five billion Internet users.
Three billion new minds that we never heard before will join global communications.
What do these people need?
What will they consume? What will they want?
And, instead of economic deadlock, I see one of the greatest economic bullying of history.
These people represent several trillions of dollars that will flow into the global economy.
And they will become healthier by using tricoders, and they are better trained by the khan-academy, thereby using the possibility of using a 3D computer's and infinite computing, and so much more productive than ever.
So what can we bring about 3 billion growing, healthy, educated, productive members of the human community?
As with a phrase of new, never previously owned voices, it would be.
How would it be to give a voice to the oppressed, wherever they are, and create change for the first time?
What will these three billion people bring?
How about contributions we cannot even predict?
One of the things I learned by the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things that big companies and governments could only create in the past.
I want to complete with a story that really has enthusiasm for me.
There is a program that some might already know.
It is a game that torture means.
It was developed at the university of Washington in Seattle.
And it is a game in which individuals can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve.
Depending on his behavior, we can predict the structure and function.
And this is very important in medical research.
So far, this has been a problem for supercomputers.
And that game was played by university professors and others.
And it is now hundreds of thousands of people who played the game online.
And it showed that today's human detection works better than the best supercomputers.
And when these people came and looked who is the world's best protég file, this was not a MIT professor, nor was it a CalTech student from England, Manchester, a woman working as an already-serving assistant to a redoha clinic, and was the best economist of the twenty-night.
I have enormous confidence in our future is the fact that we have more power than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet.
We have access to exponential technology.
We have the passion of a diy-innovators.
We have the capital of techno-philanthropists.
And we have three billion new heads that we can work online to confront the new challenges, and to do what is needed.
We expect a few extraordinary decades.
Thank you.
I believe that we must do something about changing medical culture.
And I believe that it begins with a medical student and I am.
And perhaps I have long enough in business as I can afford to abandon a piece of my own wrong preponderance.
But, before I come to my recourse, let us start with a little baseball.
Lee, why not?
We are the seasonal near and move us to the world cup.
We all love baseball, or?
Baseball is filled with great statistics.
And there are hundreds of them.
"Moneyball" Appears soon and turns around statistics and to use these benefits a fine baseball team.
I will refer to a statistics that I hope most of them have heard.
It is the average performance of the thugs.
We speak of a 300 when a thug proposes 300.
That means that the players certainly proposes 3 attacks.
That means beating the ball into the foreign field, he will not be caught, and who tried to throw the ball to the first base did not get it in time, and the follower was security.
Three out of 10.
Do you know how to call a 300ter League League League League League?
Good, really good, perhaps a all-star.
Do you know how to call a 400ter?
That is someone who is certainly 4 out of 10.
Legendary - as TED Williams, the latest major League League League players met more than 400 times during a regular season.
Let us go back to my medical world in which I feel much good, or perhaps a little less good after which I spoke with them.
Suppose they have a blinkered divorce, and they are referred to a operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blinding power.
Somehow that doesn't work, or?
Suppose they live in a specific area, and they have a dear people with clogged cardiac disease, and their house doctor overpoints them to a cardiologists whose average performance is 200.
But do you know what?
It is much better this year. It is much better at the rising frontier.
And it proposes a 257.
Somehow that doesn't work.
But I will ask you a question.
What do you believe, like the average performance of a cardiologists or a nurse, or an egg, a birthday patron, should be a lifeline?
1,000, very well.
The truth is that no one in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or rescue doctor should be.
But what we do is that everyone, including me, is to be perfect in the world.
Never make a mistake, but no one can think about the details of how to do so.
And that is the news I began in medical studies.
I was a compulsory student.
In the high school, once a student said that Brian goldmann would learn for a blood test.
And so it was.
And I learned unfar from here in my small dacham in the Toronto sisters on general hospital.
I learned everything.
In my anatomist lecture, I learned the origins and defects of any identity, every branch of any kind leading away from the wiring, obscure, and ordinary differential diagnoses.
I even knew the differential diagnosis of renale bure azicans.
And all the time I gathered more and more knowledge.
And I was good, I joined claude.
And I left medical studies with the impression I knew everything, or at least as much as possible, as close to completion as possible, that I am immune to mistakes.
And it took a long time for a woman to hit a print.
I was resistant to a pediatric school in Toronto as a woman's print to me in the hospital's emergency office.
At that point, I have pointed out the cardiological service.
And it was my mandate when the emergency staff sought cardiological council to examine the emergency patient.
And feedback on my supreme doctor
I examined a lady, and she was in breath.
And when I listened to her, she made sound.
And when I stopped their breast with the essence, I was able to hear a break of noise on both sides, saying that they suffered under contemporarily deterrence.
This is a state in which the heart is failing, rather than pumping the entire blood further, a part of the bloody in the lungs and filling it gradually came to the shortfall.
And that was not a difficult diagnosis.
I made it and made me care.
I gave her aspirin. I gave her medicine to the heart.
I gave her medicine we call diuretics, water pills so that they became the liquid.
And over a period of a year and a half, it began to feel better.
I felt good.
And, as I made my first mistake; I sent them home.
In fact, I made two mistakes.
I sent her home without my supreme doctor.
I didn't pick up the line, and did what I should have been a call at my upper doctor to tell him that he had a chance to make his own image.
And he knew it, he would have been able to manage additional information.
Perhaps I did it with good reason.
Perhaps I did not want to be the doctor in need.
Perhaps I wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that I was so, and so I would be able to keep my patients with no contact with him.
My second mistake was worse.
So I sent her home, I got a silent voice in my attempt to say, "Goldman, no good idea."
In fact, I was so worried about self-security that I asked the nurse who was a young boy, "Do you believe that it is okay when you go home?"
And the nurse thought about this, saying in a faceted way, "I think you will go well."
I remember that it was yesterday.
So I signed the disruption and came to a hospital and rescue aides and brought them home.
And I returned to work.
The rest of the day, the evening, I felt in my stomach.
But I continued to work.
And, at the end of the day, I shrugged my things to go to the hospital and went to the parking lot with the car when I did something I did otherwise.
I went home by the emergency department.
And there was another nurse, not the sister who had seen the print, but another three words to me, and these three words fear most emergency doctors I know.
Other medical professionals fear this, but emergency medicine is especially because we see patients so transitory.
The three words are: remember?
"Remember the patients who turned home?"
Asked the nurse.
"So she is back," She said in this particular tone.
So it was back.
It was back and dying.
About an hour after she arrived at home, after sending it to home, she collapsed, and the family called 911, and the rescue aides brought them back to the emergency station with a 50 pressure that is a dangerous state of shock.
They barely accounted for blue.
Emergency personnel drew all the single-strand breaks.
They put their bloodshed.
They joined them on the knocking machine.
I was shocked and so forth.
And I survived this rollout because it came to intensive care after stabilization, and I hoped that it would recover.
And, after two days, three days, it became clear that it would never guard again.
It had suffered a non-treatable brain damage.
Their family accumulated.
And, over the next eight or nine days, they did.
On the day, they hubris – a woman's print, a woman, a mother, and grandmother.
It is said that the names of those who die never gets forged.
And that was the first time I learned this.
The next few weeks, I made accused of charges, and I learned the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture – I felt alone, not the kind of nonsense that you feel because you cannot speak with colleagues about it.
They all know the healthy shame when there is a secret of the best friend, even though it is booming, and you get caught and you face the best friend and leads my terrible discussion when you end the bad conscience, and you don't have such a mistake.
If reaffirming, and the mistake never again makes.
That is the kind of appalling shame.
The unhealthy way I am talking about is the one who makes one in the heart of the ill.
It is the one that you say not what you have done is bad, but that you are bad.
And that was what I felt.
And it was not because of my doctor, he was very happy.
He spoke to the family and I am sure that he smooth the woes and made sure that I would not be sued.
But I continued these questions.
Why didn't I ask the supreme doctor? Why did I cut it home?
And then in my worst moments: how could I make such a fool?
Why did I go to medicine?
Slowly but safe.
I began to feel better.
And then in a cloudy day, there was a hole in the clouds and the sun broke, and I may feel better again.
And I acted with me that if I doubled my efforts to perfection and never recovered a mistake that the voice could be silenced.
And it did.
And I worked further.
Then it happened again.
Two years later, I had the service in the emergency station in a municipal hospital north of Toronto and I ordered a 25 years old man with a sophisticated rachen.
It was much loose, and I was in rush.
He has always shown here.
I looked into the rachen, and it was a small pink.
And I gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him.
And when he went out of the door, he showed his rachen.
Two days later, I came to my next emergency service, and my cheztin asked me to speak to her office.
And she said the three words: remember you?
"Do you recall the patients with the advanced ones?"
It turned out that he was a streptokock infection.
He had a potentially life-dangerous disease called eglottitis.
They can Google, but it is not infection of the pie, but the upper breath and causes the conclusion of the breath.
Fortunately, he did not die.
He got intravenous anti-botica, and followed a few days later.
And I began again by the same torturing of shame and self-doubt, lifted me and resigned to work until it was again and again and again.
In an emergency class, I have overlooked a blind footprint.
There is much to consider that one is working in a hospital that had just 14 patients per night at that time.
In both cases, I did not send them home, and there was probably no flaws in their treatment.
In one thought, he would have kidney stones.
I ordered the kidneys to image the kidneys. When the one that was without a fund, my colleague found a hardening of the patient in the lower sector, calling for operators.
The other had strong diarrhea.
I ordered a flood to rehydrier and asked my colleagues to judge him as well.
And he did, and when he forged a mitigation in the bottom sector, he called for operators
In both cases, they were happy, and they were
Both cases were nagging me.
And I would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes happened only in the first five years, which many of my colleagues claim is all-nonsense.
Some of my mouth happened in the last five years.
Alone, damage, and without support.
Here is the problem: if I don't complete with my mistakes and talk about it, if I can say the silent voice that I really cannot find, how can I share it with my colleagues?
How can I teach my mistakes, so that they do not make the same?
If I go to a space – as it is now, I don't know what you think about me.
When did you heard the last time of someone who spoke of the miscalculation?
Oh yes, they go to a cocktail party, and there may be heard about some other doctors, but you will not hear someone about their own mistakes.
If I were to go full of colleagues and ask for immediate support and tell them what I just told them, I would probably not reach the end of the second story before they really would be uncomfortably happy to give you a joke, you would change the issue and forget the rest.
And, in fact, if I or my colleagues know that a pediatric in my hospital had lost the wrong leg, they believe me that I had trouble watching him.
That is the system in which we live.
It is a totally denial of mistakes.
It is a system in which there are two fundamental positions – those who make mistakes and those who do not make no mistake; those who cut the lack of sleep and the absence of restrictions that have bad results and results.
It is almost an ideological response as antibodies that attack people.
And there is the idea that if we banked those who make mistakes from medicine that we remain a safe system.
But there are two problems.
In my about 20 years of medical fiction and journalism, I have prepared a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything I could for one of my first article I wrote for my Star Star, "White art" Show, black ".
And what I learned is that mistakes are entirely unavoidable.
We are working in a system in which a 10 median language is either a false or false, in which hospital infections are increasingly defaulted and causing devastation or
In this state, about 24,000 Canadians die from unusually mistakes.
In the United states, the institute for medicine estimates the number of 100,000.
Both are strong undercuts, because we don't see the problem as we should.
And is the crux.
In a hospital system where medical knowledge doubled all two to three years, we cannot keep up.
Sleep deprivation is ubiquitous.
We cannot get rid of it.
We have cognitive errors, so that we can take a perfect disease trajectory for a patient with breast pain.
Then I take the same patient with breast pain, inherit it, and give it weakened, giving it an easy alcoholic breath, and suddenly history has a contempt.
I don't take the same trajectory.
I am not a robot; I don't always do things.
And my patients are not cars; they do not always tell me their symptoms in the same way.
All of this is inevitable.
So, if you take the system as I was taught, and all flawed health experts were discouraged, there is no longer one left at the end.
And do you know the surrogacy of people who do not want to speak about their worst cases?
In my paper "White quarters, black art." I have the habit of saying, "This is my worst mistake," I would say to anyone from the rescue assistants to the chefarologist, "This is my worst mistake," Blah, blah, "You know what about your microphone?"
And then their puffs expand, they have hit their head, look down, and they are hard to swallow, and begin telling their stories.
They want to tell their stories. They want to share their stories.
They want to be able to say, "Saw, don't make the same mistake I fabricated."
What they need is an environment that enables them to do.
What they need is a new medical culture.
And it starts with a doctor.
The newly defined practitioner is a man who knows his humanity, accepts that it is not proud of it, but it does everything from them to learn so that it can be passed on.
She shares her experience with others.
It supports others from their mistakes.
And it shows other mistakes, not to mention mention mention, but in a benign, supportive way that everyone benefits.
And it works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life, and if so, people make mistakes from time.
For the system to develop backups, which make it easier to discern, make people unavoidable, allowing full spaces in which everyone watching health care can actually address what potential mistakes and even rewards for those mistakes.
My name is Brian Goldman.
I am the newly defined doctor.
I am one. I make mistakes.
I regret, but I am attempting to learn best from it to acknowledge others.
I don't know what you think of me, but I can live.
Let me close to three of my own words: I remember me.
I will talk about a tiny, small idea.
There is a change-level level.
And, because you can explain this idea at a minute, I will tell you three stories before to use time.
The first story is Charles Darwin, one of my heroes.
They know that he was here in 1835.
They may think that he finken, but that is not true.
Indeed, he gathered fish.
He described one of them as "Usually."
It was a fan.
Until the 1980's, he was heavily fiscally fished.
Now he stands at the red list of endangered species.
This story has heard many times from the gali islands or of other places, it is not very much.
Yet we still come to the galápagos-islands.
We still think they are originally conceived.
They still describe them as untouched.
What happened here?
The second story is to clarify another concept that can be change-wide
For I have seen it when I studied a fixed in west Africa in 1971.
I went there, because I grew up in Europe, and I wanted to work in Africa later.
I thought I could integrate.
And I got a dire sunk and was convinced that I was not really from there.
It was my first solar brand.
As they see, palmen and some mangroves have failed.
There have been roughly 20 centimeters, black inndowns, a sign of the buntbarsche.
The fish of these bunkers were very attacker, and the fishermen lived well and earned them on average in Ghana.
When I returned to this 27 years later, the fish had shrunk to half its size.
They are rapidly growing at five centimeters.
They were genetically engineered.
It was still fish.
People were still happy.
And the fish was also lucky enough to be there.
So nothing has changed, but everything has changed.
My third small story tells me that I am joining the drawn-out fishing in Southeast Asia.
In the 1970s – more at the beginning of the 1960's – Europe promoted many development projects.
Fish production meant countries that began 100,000 fish, the industrial fishing catch of this rather ugly ship is
I went on, and we made surveys across the South China sea, and especially in Japan's vasp.
We had no words for what we started there.
I now know that it was the cause of the sea.
90% of our fangs were weaker, other animals that are linked to the cause.
Most of the fish, the small points there on the wreckage, were coral reefs.
In essence, the sea was shut down, and then reversed.
These images are extraordinary, because the transition is very fast.
Within a year, a collection starts with commercial fishing catch.
The reason is being changed – in this case – a hard cause or coral waste.
This is a dead torate.
They were not consumed, they threw them away because they were dead.
Once again, we began a vigorous.
It has not been drowned.
Then they wanted to kill them, because they could well eat.
In fact, this mountain will be collected from wreckage every time for fishermen to drive into areas where it has never been fiscally fiscally
But it is not documented.
We change the world, but we do not remember it.
We adapt our normalities to the new level, and don't recall what was there.
If you generalize it, this is what happens.
On the y axis, there are some good things: biodiversity, the number of orca, the green of their country, the water supply.
Over time, it is changing; it is changing, because people are naturally natural for their actions
Each generation views the images that they absorb at the beginning of their conscious life as standard, and will derive everything from it.
The difference is then perceived as loss.
But they do not recognize the previous losses.
There can be a sequence of changes.
At the end, they want to receive only the inheritant remains.
That is precisely what we now test.
We want to get things that have disappeared, or things that are no longer as they were.
One may now think that the problem is that when people lived in predatory societies, animals killed, and were aware of only a few generations of what they had done.
For, obviously, an animal that has been very often is rarely before it dies.
So it is not often losing premature animals.
It is always losing rare animals.
And that is why it is not perceived as a loss.
Over time, we focus on the big animals and the sea are the big fish.
They become less rare because we begin them.
Over time, there is little fish left, and we think that is the value.
The question is why people accept it.
Now, because they do not know that it was different.
Of course, many people, scientists will confirm that it was really different.
They will confirm it, because the evidence that they were in an earlier form are not as they would like to show the evidence.
There is, for example, the anecdotal that the report of a capital that observed large fish deposits in this area cannot be used or is usually not used by fishing scientists because it is not "Scientific."
So we have the situation that people do not know the past, even though we live in educated societies because they do not trust the sources of the past.
This shows the enormous role that a marine sanctuary can play.
For, at the bottom, we are restoring the past.
We reconsider the past that people cannot understand because the normalities have changed and are very low.
To do so, the people who see a marine sanctuary and benefit from the insight that enables them to withdraw their values.
What about the people who are not possible because they have no access – for example, in the middle west?
Here, I think the art and the film may fill the gap, as well as simulations.
This is the Chesapeake Bay simulation.
A long time ago, there were grey whales – 500 years ago.
And the blames and shashing may remind them of "Avatar."
If you think of "Avatar" When you think about why people were so touched – aside from the pocahontas-history, why were they so moved from the bilderworld?
Because it is fueling something that has lost in some ways.
So my recommendation, the only I would give, is Cameron's "Avatar II."
Thank you.
In the 1980's, the communist east Germany, one had to have a machine to register it in the government.
They also had to register an unprecedented text from this typeship.
The reason: the government could revisit where a text came.
They found an article with false thought that they could detect the creators of this thought.
And we in the west couldn't understand how anyone could do something, and how much that would limit freedom of speech.
In our own countries, we would never do so.
But if you buy a new pinch print from the leading laser print fabrics in 2011 and print one side, this side has printed a shining yellow gap on each side in a pattern that clearly leaves the side with them and its print.
This is what we are doing today
And no one seems to get out of this.
And that was an example of how our own governments use the technology against us, citizens.
And this is one of the three main sources of online problems that exist today.
Consider what really happened in the world: we can divide the attacks into categories.
We have three main groups.
There are online criminals.
For example, this is golubow from kyiv in Ukraine.
And online criminals are very easy to understand.
These people deserve money.
They use online attacks to earn a lot of money.
There are several known cases of online millionaires, multimillionaires who deserve their money through attacks.
This is Vladimir Tsastsin from Tartu in Estonia.
That is Alfred Gonzalez.
Stephen watt.
Björn Sundin.
This is palpable, Tariq Al-Daour, and so on.
These people have made wealth online, but they have acquired it illegally by using trojaner to steal money from our bank accounts, while we do our online banking, or keylogical information that accumulated our loan card information on the keylogical boards during which we buy online computers
The us intelligence service fror, two months ago, the Swiss account of Mr. Sam Jain here, and that account was $14.9 million when it became frozen.
Lord Jain itself is on a free foot that is unknown to residence.
And I predict that it is more likely that we will be victims of an online crime than a real world crime.
And it is very obvious that this will only be worse.
In the future, most crimes will take place online.
The second-largest attacker we can see today is not motivated by money.
They are motivated by something different – protests, say, or by their audience.
Groups like anonymous have increased over the past 12 months, and have become one of the main players on the field of online attacks.
So these are the three main recourse groups: criminals who do it for money, hackers like anonymous, who are opposition, but the last group are nations, governments that guide attacks.
There are cases as the eotar is.
It shows unprecedented what happens when governments attack their own citizens.
DigiNotar is a full-blown certification of the Netherlands – or it was.
Last autumn, insolvency had to report, because DigiNotar had been hacked.
Someone had collapsed, and had hacked the system thoroughly.
And last week, in a meeting with Dutch government officials, I asked one of the group's senior figures whether he made it possible that people died because of the digotar hacks.
And his answer was "Yes."
Now, how do people die in the wake of such hacks?
DigiNotar is a certification position.
They sell credits.
What do you do with certified?
Now, a poster requires a website with http, such as Gmail.
Now we all use, or many of us, Gmail, or one of their competitors, but services are particularly prevalent in totalitarian states such as Iran, where dissidents use foreign suppliers like Gmail, because they know that they can trust more than local suppliers and that they are insulated over local channels.
But if they are in a foreign country.
Certification authority hack and fake certification certificates.
And that is exactly what happened in the inotar trap.
How does the Arab spring and the things that have happened in Egypt, for example?
Now, in Egypt, the insurgents in April 2011 piled the headquarters of Egypt's secret police, and they found a lot of acts
In these acts, a file called FINFISHER. "
And, in this file, the translation of a local firm that the Egyptian government had sold some programs that they – in very large context – could capture any communication of Egyptian citizens.
They had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the Egyptian government.
The headquarters of corporate headquarters are here.
So western governments provide totalitarian governments to help address their own citizens.
But western governments also help themselves.
For example, in Germany only a few weeks ago, the so-called state power janer, which was a trojaner used by German government officials to tickle their own citizens.
If you are suspected in a criminal case, your phone is almost surely being tapped.
But today we are far beyond that.
They tap their Internet connection.
They use funds like state electrians to match their computers with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communications to listen to their online discussions.
So if we continue to think about such things, the obvious answer to people would be: "OK, that sounds bad, but I do not matter because I am a braver citizen.
I don't have to worry!
I have nothing to hide. "
And this reasoning makes no sense.
Privacy must be given.
Privacy is not the debate.
It is not a choice between privacy and security.
It is a decision between freedom and control.
And, while we may trust our governments today in 2011, every right we give to is always made.
And do we trust, blind to any future government, a government that we may have in fifty years?
These are the questions we need to employ the next 50 years.
It may seem strange, but I am a big fan of concrete block stones.
The first concrete blockstones were manufactured in 1868 and derived from a simple idea: elements of cement that fit together.
Building blocks quickly became the world's most used construction unit.
They used us to build things larger than we, buildings, bridges, one stone after the other.
In essence, the concrete building block for our time has become a building block.
Nearly a hundred years later, in 1947, bathing came out.
It was called the "Automatic stone."
And, within a few years, bailed in every budget.
It is estimated that more than 400 billion stones were produced - or 75 stones for each person on the planet.
They need not be an engineer to create brave houses, brave bridges, or brave buildings.
Cooler made it possible for everyone.
Wikileaks essentially exposed the concrete building block, the world's building block, and makes a building block for our imagination.
In the meantime, at the Bell Labs was announced the next revolution, the next building block.
The piled was a small plastic unit that would bring us from a world of the static, consequential building blocks into a world where everything was interacting.
As the bloc emphasizes much larger, more complex circuits, one stone after the other.
But there is a major difference: the momentum was only for experts.
Personally, I do not accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts, so I decided to change this.
Eight years ago, I was at the media lab, and I began exploring this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hand of artists and artists.
A few years ago, I began to develop littour.
Let me show them how they work.
Littits are electronic panels that have a specific function.
They are warranted to be light, tone, motor, and sensor.
And the best of this is that they connect with magnets.
So they cannot sit down.
The stones are coded.
Green is issue, blue is electricity, pink is levy, and orange is cable.
So all they must do is link a blue and green with one another, and they can rapidly build much larger circles.
They add a blue to a green, and they can light.
They can put a switch in between, creating a small dimmer.
Consider the switch out of a pulsmodul, which is here, and they have made a small blinker.
If you add that to that extra effect, you have produced a noise machine.
I will stop that.
Beyond the simple game, littits is actually quite powerful.
Rather than programming, drastic, or wages, littour must program them with simple, intuitive gestures.
So, in order to accelerate or slow down the blinks, they simply turn on this button, and it makes the impulse more quickly or slower.
The idea behind littour is that it is a growing library.
We want to make every individual interaction in the world a commodity stone.
Lights, sound, solar elements, engines – everything should be available.
We have distributed littour to children and watch them.
And it was an incredible experience.
The most beautiful thing is how they begin to understand the electronics they are in everyday life, and they do not learn in school.
For example, such as a nighttime light works, or why the doors remain open, or how an iPod responds to contact.
We have also brought littour to design schools.
So, for example, we had no experience in electronic things that started playing littour as material.
Here, with filz, paper, and water bottles, as georgia...
A few weeks ago, we brought litterian, and they gave some bodies that had no technical experience – just cardboard, wood, and paper – and said, "Power."
Here is an example of a project that they made, directed fettip kanone.
But wait, this is really my favorite project.
It is a hummer from vacuous, fear of darkness.
For these non-engineers, littour became another material, electronics was simply another material.
And we want to make this material available to everyone.
So littit is open.
They can go on the web site, all of the design deposits and produce them.
We want the world of what he created, the inventors who encourage effective, because this world in which we live, this interactive world belongs to us.
So, they go loose and begin to invent.
Thank you.
